Passage 1:
Neal Asbury
Neal Asbury (born May 2, 1957) is Chief Executive of The Legacy Companies. An advocate of entrepreneurship and free enterprise,  he hosts the nationally syndicated talk radio show Neal Asbury's Truth for America (now Neal Asbury's Made in America).

Early life
Neal Asbury attended Jefferson Township High School in Jefferson Township, New Jersey. After graduation he enrolled in Rowan University in New Jersey graduating in 1979 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in music.

Career
After graduating from Rowan University Neal began working in the mail room of a Fifth Avenue as a food service exporter. A year later, Asbury moved on to Manila, working as a director of sales for a large trading company and traveling to capitals in the Far East. Seven years later, he founded Asbury Worldwide. By 1987, the firm had grown to include twelve distribution facilities around the globe.  In 1989, he started began FAB Asia, Inc. in Manila, Philippines, an  Asian fabricator of commercial kitchens for McDonald's as well as other American restaurant chains.
After selling his group of companies in July 1999, Asbury established Greenfield World Trade, a global trading company selling and servicing American manufactured products in over 130 countries to both  retail and commercial markets. He acquired J. Cobo (a distribution company with operations throughout Latin America), General (a manufacturer of food preparation equipment), Zeroll (a manufacturer of kitchen gadgets), and Omega (a manufacturer of electrical kitchen appliances).

Awards and distinctions
Asbury has received the E-Star Export Award and the Export Achievement Award from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Asbury's company was recognized as National Champion Exporter of The Year(2008) after they were first recognized in February as Exporter of the Year for Florida, which was preceded by being selected as the Region IV Exporter of the Year, covering the Southeast United States.  Greenfield World Trade's Neal Asbury Named SBA's National Champion Exporter of the Year.

Radio show and blog
Each week Asbury hosts a talk radio show, Neal Asbury's Made In America, (formerly Truth For America), produced by Atlantic Radio Network.  It is broadcast around the US by Radio America and deals with topics related to America's entrepreneurial spirit and the American Dream.Asbury also writes the Conscientious Equity blog, which focuses on his interest for small business, entrepreneurship and the benefits of expanding the U.S. role in global commerce. Topics discussed on the blog range from the health care crisis to job creation and international trade. Asbury's blog entries have been syndicated online, appearing on Moneynews.com.

Personal life
On December 29 in 1984 Neal married Elizabeth Trixia Gomez Carpio, an actress from the Philippines. They have two daughters.
Passage 2:
Steve Somers
Steve Somers (born April 17, 1947), nicknamed the Schmoozer, is an American talk radio host best known for his work on the New York City sports radio station WFAN (660 AM). He has been with the station since its inception in 1987.

Personal life
Somers is a native of San Francisco, California, and became a fan of the San Francisco Giants upon the team's arrival to the city in 1958. He graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1969. He currently resides in Manhattan. 
His nickname is  "The Schmoozer." He roots for the New York Mets (or Metropolitans as he refers to them), the New York Knicks (or Knickerbockers) the New York Rangers and New York Jets (sometimes he even calls them the Jetropolitans).

Career
Somers began his career in the Bay Area. Before graduating high school, he worked at KYA radio in San Francisco delivering on air high school sports reports.  After college, Somers began hosting a news talk show on KNEW radio in Oakland. To that effect, Time Magazine ran a story naming him the youngest talk show host in the country at that period of time. Somers also worked a public address announcer for the NBA's San Francisco Warriors.
In 1970, Somers joined KPIX in San Francisco  as a weekend sports anchor and won a San Francisco Press Club Award. Over the next decade and a half he held other television sportscasting positions at KOVR in Sacramento, WXIA-TV in Atlanta and KNBC in Los Angeles. While in Los Angeles, he also launched a sports talk program at KMPC radio.
Somers joined WFAN at the station's inception in July 1987. He spent his first few years with the station as the overnight host. While he was on the overnight program he dubbed himself "Captain Midnight". During this time he conducted one of the last ever interviews with Mark Koenig, who was the last living member of the 1927 New York Yankees. He later spent a few years co-hosting the 10am-1pm slot with WWOR-TV sports anchor Russ Salzberg. The program was titled "The Sweater and the Schmoozer." At that time, Somers developed some of the quirks that have been hallmarks of his WFAN tenure, dropping catchphrases such as "schmoooooozing S-P-O-R-T-S" (spelling out the word "sports"), giving time checks in minutes and seconds, uniquely reading the end of the station's phone number as "six-six-six-six" rather than the standard "sixty six-sixty six", joking at the expense of engineer Eddie Scozzare ("THE Eddie Scozzare?" "No, Eddie Maple, who do you think we're talking?"), and reading the catalogue numbers of live commercials ("LV-242, for those of you scoring at home, and I know you are...").
He is also known to refer to the New York Mets, by their official name "The New York Metropolitans" drawing out the parts as Metro-Politans, and referring to the Islanders as the Ice-landers.
Currently, Somers usually works during the evening on weekdays. His program can be heard anywhere from 6:30pm to 2am, depending on whether WFAN airs a sporting event that night. He is also sometimes heard on weekends. He is colloquially known as "The Schmoozer." Somers has said of the infrequent scheduling, "Sometimes, just sometimes, I forget what time zone I live in."
In October 2021, Somers stated that WFAN's owner Audacy had requested to move his show back into the overnight hours, a request Somers declined as he was no longer willing to work a graveyard slot. He stated that, because of the request, he was planning on retiring from his regular shift at WFAN "sooner rather than later," with the intention of remaining at WFAN on a reduced schedule as a fill-in host if Audacy allows.

Film
Somers appeared in the 1979 film The Visitor.
Passage 3:
Andy Warhol's Fifteen Minutes
Andy Warhol's Fifteen Minutes is an American talk show hosted by artist Andy Warhol, that aired on MTV from 1985 to 1987. One of the network's earliest series, it featured interviews with up-and-coming musicians such as Courtney Love. Other such talk show guests include Debbie Harry and Chris Stein of Blondie, Nick Rhodes of Duran Duran, Ric Ocasek of the Cars, the Ramones, Grace Jones, Yoko Ono, Judd Nelson, Kevin Dillon, John C. McGinley, and William S. Burroughs.

See also
15 minutes of fame
Passage 4:
Treat Her Like a Lady (Diana King song)
"Treat Her Like a Lady" is a song by Jamaican-American singer Diana King from the 1995 album, Tougher Than Love. It was written by King, Andy Marvel and Billy Mann, and produced by Marvel. In 1997, it was covered by Canadian singer Celine Dion for her album, Let's Talk About Love.

Celine Dion version
Canadian singer Celine Dion recorded a cover version of "Treat Her Like a Lady" for her 1997 album, Let's Talk About Love. It was produced by Ric Wake. Dion changed some lyrics, gaining a co-writing credit. Diana King and Brownstone recorded guest vocals for the track. "Treat Her Like a Lady" was released as the final single in Europe between March and June 1999, to coincide with the Let's Talk About Love World Tour. It peaked inside top 40 in the United Kingdom, Scotland, Ireland, Austria and Iceland.

Critical reception
Entertainment Weekly editor David Browne called Dion's cover an "overarranged stab at reggae dancehall" and "unintentionally amusing". The New York Observer editor Jonathan Bernstein wrote, "She's fallen on her face before when attempting to be as one with the rhythm, but Celine Dion has never humiliated herself as comprehensively as she does when mashing it up in a dance-hall style on "Treat Her Like a Lady". As Seinfeld' s George Costanza remarked in a similar situation, "Sweet fancy Moses!"" Steven Wells from NME commented, "Celine raps hardcore radical feminism! Yes she does! She says that we've got to treat women like "ladies". Otherwise they might go "crazy". This is possibly the most profound statement on the subject of women's oppression since Germaine Greer's The Female Eunuch".

Commercial performance
After the success of "My Heart Will Go On", radio stations in Quebec started playing "Treat Her Like a Lady" in May 1998. Because of that, it entered the airplay chart on 30 May 1998 and peaked at number nine. The commercial single was released in selected European countries between March and June 1999, to coincide with the Let's Talk About Love World Tour. It was issued almost a year after the previous single from Let's Talk About Love, "Immortality".
In April 1999, "Treat Her Like a Lady" entered the charts in Austria and Germany, peaking at numbers 16 and 64, respectively. In May 1999, it debuted on the charts in the Netherlands and Belgium, reaching numbers 62 in the Netherlands, 70 in Wallonia and 78 in Flanders. In July 1999, "Treat Her Like a Lady" entered the charts in few other countries, peaking at numbers 29 in the United Kingdom, 33 in Scotland, 40 in Ireland, 54 in Sweden, and as a result number 91 on the European Hot 100 Singles. The song also reached numbers 13 in Iceland and 38 on the airplay chart in Spain.

Music video
The live music video was recorded on 18 December 1998, during the Let's Talk About Love World Tour in Montreal, Canada. It was directed by Gérard Pullicino. The video was included on the UK enhanced CD single in June 1999. In November 2022, it was uploaded into Dion's official YouTube channel.

Track listing and formats
Charts
Release history
Passage 5:
Roamin' Holiday
Roamin' Holiday is a 1937 Our Gang short comedy film directed by Gordon Douglas. It was the 155th Our Gang short released (156th episode, 67th talking short, and 68th talking episode).

Plot
Upset at being forced to do the household chores all weekend long (and the threat of taking dancing lessons), Spanky, Alfalfa, Buckwheat, and Porky decide to run away from home. Taking a breather in the tiny village of Jenksville, the boys manage to cadge a meal from kindly storekeeper Mrs. Jenks. But when she finds out that the kids are runaways, she passes this information along to her husband, Constable Hi Jenks, who jovially decides to teach the boys a lesson. Pretending to arrest the four youngsters, Constable Jenks dresses them in convict stripes and forces them to work on the rock pile, figuring that after an hour or so they will be glad to return home. But an unanticipated swarm of bees brings this little morality play to a sudden and painful conclusion for the four roamin' rascals.

Cast
The Gang
Eugene Lee as Porky
George McFarland as Spanky
Carl Switzer as Alfalfa
Billie Thomas as Buckwheat
Darla Hood as Darla
Pete the Pup as himself

Additional cast
Joe White as One of Alfalfa's twin brothers
Tom White as One of Alfalfa's twin brothers
Otis Harlan as Hiram Jenks
May Wallace as 'Ma' Jenks

See also
Our Gang filmography
Passage 6:
Bangkok Love Story
Bangkok Love Story (Thai: เพื่อน...กูรักมึงว่ะ; RTGS: Phuean...Ku Rak Mueng Wa; literally "Friend ... I love you") is a 2007 Thai film written and directed by Poj Arnon. A gay romantic crime action drama, it is the story of a man who falls in love with a gunman assigned to kill him.

Plot
A loner gunman named Maek is assigned to kidnap a police informant named Iht, but Maek has a change of heart when he takes Iht to the 'hit house'. Maek is ordered to kill Iht, but because he only kills scum and has discovered that Iht isn't bad, he refuses, turning the gun on the enforcers who had hired him to murder Iht. A gun battle ensues during which Maek is wounded, but Iht grabs Maek's gun and shoots their way out of the mobsters' headquarters. The two men then escape on Maek's motorcycle. Maek tells Iht to leave at gun point but he won't and takes Maek back to his rooftop hide-out. There, over a period of time, Iht tends to Maek's wound and finds himself attracted to him.
In fact, Maek is also attracted to Iht, but keeps it hidden, while Iht cares for his former would-be killer with great tenderness.
While giving Maek a bath one day, Iht kisses him on the mouth.  Maek reciprocates and the two men engage in a passionate sexual experience. The next day, however, a conflicted Maek demands that Iht go away and leave him alone. Iht returns home to his fiancée, Sai, but is no longer interested in continuing a relationship with her. Iht spends his days pining over Maek, and tracks down Maek's brother, Mhok, and their mother. Mhok is HIV positive, as the result of sexual abuse by his and Maek's stepfather, and their mother is dying of AIDS.
Maek remains elusive, hiding from Iht when he visits the hideout, but leaving signs that he's there so Iht will return.
Though Maek avoids making contact with Iht, eventually he goes to visit his mother and brother, and Iht corners him at the entrance to the building, declaring his love for Maek and stressing how much he misses him.  They kiss passionately. They are unfortunately covertly observed by Sai, Iht's live-in fiancée.
Maek's dream is to take his mother and brother away from Bangkok to the mountains of Mae Hong Son Province. But after Maek's mother overhears that Mhok has prostituted himself to survive after contracting AIDS from his stepfather, she commits suicide by hanging herself. The brothers take her down, and as they are rushing her from the apartment, she is killed by a gunshot fired by an unseen sniper. The bullet is presumably intended for Maek.
Maek's former mobster employers are gunning for him and Iht. Maek decides to hunt them down first, and he succeeds in killing them. After Mohk informs Iht what Maek is doing, Iht goes to the capo's house to try to stop Maek, but he is too late and misses Maek by a second. Iht is injured when the capo's wife shoots at a clock that shatters in Iht's face.
Maek, meanwhile meets his brother at the railway station to leave Bangkok for good. But before he can board the train, he is apprehended by the police and taken away. Mhok breaks down. He's the sole witness to his brother being apprehended.
Years pass by. Iht visits Maek in prison and reveals that he was left blind in the final gunbattle with Maek's ex-boss. Mhok commits suicide while at a Hospice of Watphrabahtnamphu in Lopburi because he no longer has the energy to fight his disease. Eventually, Maek is released from prison, and Iht meets him. But before the two men can leave to start their life together, Maek is shot dead by a single bullet fired by an unseen assassin. A bewildered, blind Iht collapses over his lover's corpse, swearing his love for him again and again.
Iht eventually regains his sight, and is finally able to view on his mobile phone a video recorded by Maek himself many years before, admitting that all along, he had loved Iht and that he would love him to his last breath.

Cast
Rattanaballang Tohssawat as Maek (Cloud)
Chaiwat Thongsaeng as Iht (Stone)
Weeradit Srimalai as Mhok (Fog)
Chatcha Rujinanon as Sai (Sand)
Suchao Pongwilai
Chonprakhan Janthareuang
Uthumporn Silaphan
Rachanu Boonchuduang

Production
When Bangkok Love Story was in pre-production in 2006, the Royal Thai Police raised objections to the script, which originally depicted a policeman (Iht) falling in love with the assassin Maek. The character Iht's exact connection to the police department was then made ambiguous so that the film would be passed by the Board of Censors, which includes members of the Royal Thai Police.Both lead actors, Chaiwat Thongsang (Iht) and Ratanabanrang Tosawat (Maek), are heterosexual, according to a profile of the two actors in BK Magazine. Chaiwat said he took the role because he wanted the "challenge" and to "become famous". Ratanabanrang simply stated playing a gay man "is an honor".Chaiwat said he had hoped camera angles could be used so he could avoid having to kiss his co-star, but director Poj Arnon insisted the kisses must be real. "It was totally disgusting at first, but we kind of got used to it after a while", Chaiwat said. Ratanabanrang said he had to imagine he was kissing his girlfriend. "Actually, we acted so well, that my girlfriend got paranoid".Both actors acknowledged that the film would be compared to Brokeback Mountain, but Ratanabanrang noted that Poj Arnon had the idea for Bangkok Love Story long before Brokeback had been adapted into a film.

Release and reception
Bangkok Love Story was released in Thailand cinemas on August 13, 2007. The film proved popular, with the Bangkok Post stating it was "the movie everybody has been talking about". The film earned US$325,000 in its Thailand theatrical run.Critical reception was mixed. The weekly BK Magazine stated that the film suffered from being overly melodramatic, but praised the cinematography by Tiwa Moeithaisong, which "turns Bangkok into a character in its own right."Reviews from the Bangkok English-language daily The Nation were characterised as "dismissive".
LGBT-related website Fridae praised Bangkok Love Story as "the boldest Thai gay movie to date." It additionally praised the film for being a departure from the Thai LGBT genre, which generally features coarsely stereotyped kathoey transvestite caricatures.Gay Thai independent film producer Vitaya Saeng-aroon similarly praised the film, saying director Poj Arnon was "brave enough to shake society up".Bangkok Love Story was screened at the 34th Brussels International Independent Film Festival, where it won the top prize, the Grand Award in all Categories. It was also the Opening Night selection for the 2007 Hong Kong Lesbian and Gay Film Festival, and played at the 2008 London Lesbian and Gay Film Festival.
TLA Releasing acquired theatrical, home video, television and video on demand rights for North America and the United Kingdom. The company plans to release the film in those territories in summer 2008.

Soundtrack
The film also produced a popular theme song "Yahk-Roo...Tae-Mai-Yahk-Taam" (in Thai: "อยากรู้...แต่ไม่อยากถาม meaning "I want to know, but I don't want to ask") by Calories Blah Blah (in Thai: แคลอรี่ส์ บลาห์ บลาห์).
Passage 7:
Glove Taps
Glove Taps is a 1937 Our Gang short comedy film directed by Gordon Douglas. It was the 151st Our Gang short (152nd episode, 63rd talking short, and 64th talking episode) that was released.

Plot
Butch explains that he clobbers every kid in school to prove that he is in charge. By a fluke, weak-kneed Alfalfa is chosen to face Butch in the barnyard boxing ring—and he has only one day to train for the big bout.
Spanky volunteers to be Alfalfa's trainer, which consists mostly of Alfalfa pulling him around in a little red wagon.
Porky and Buckwheat have had "this will not end well" expressions on their faces the whole time. They take matters into their own hands once the bout starts; knocking Butch out from behind a curtain and allowing Alfalfa to take the credit.

Notes
After appearing as a peripheral player in several earlier Our Gang shorts, Tommy Bond made a spectacular return to the series in Glove Taps. Here and in all future appearances, Bond is cast as neighborhood bully Butch, the bane of the existence of Spanky McFarland, Carl "Alfalfa" Switzer and the rest of the Gang.
Another Our Ganger debuts as Glove Taps Marks the first appearance of Darwood Kaye.
The background music in this one-reel comedy came from Marvin Hatley's Oscar-nominated score for the Laurel and Hardy feature Way Out West.

Cast
The Gang
Eugene Lee as Porky
George McFarland as Spanky
Carl Switzer as Alfalfa
Billie Thomas as Buckwheat

Additional cast
Tommy Bond as Butch
Sidney Kibrick as Woim
Darla Hood as Darla
Darwood Kaye as Waldo

Extra kids
Hugh Chapman, John Collum, Rex Downing, Larry Harris, Joe Levine, Jackie Lindquist, Donald Proffitt, Hugh Sheridan, Harold Switzer, Jerry Tucker, Bobs Watson, Robert Winkler

See also
Our Gang filmography
Passage 8:
Full House (season 2)
The second season of the family sitcom Full House originally aired on ABC between October 14, 1988 and May 5, 1989. From this season onward, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen are credited in the opening credits.

Plot
In season two, Danny is fired from his job as a sportscaster and instead is promoted to a higher position as the host of a morning talk show titled Wake Up San Francisco, earning him a co-host named Rebecca Donaldson (Lori Loughlin) and Jesse's potential love interest. Meanwhile, Jesse and Joey become best friends (much to Danny's jealousy) and start doing advertising jingles together. D. J. begins sixth grade and Stephanie enters first grade.

Main cast
John Stamos as Jesse Katsopolis
Bob Saget as Danny Tanner
Dave Coulier as Joey Gladstone
Candace Cameron as D. J. Tanner
Jodie Sweetin as Stephanie Tanner
Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen as Michelle Tanner

Episodes
See also
List of Full House episodes
Passage 9:
What We Talk About When We Talk About Love
What We Talk About When We Talk About Love is a 1981 collection of short stories by American writer Raymond Carver, as well as the title of one of the stories in the collection. Considered by many one of American literature's most ambitious short-story collections, it was this collection that turned Raymond Carver into a household name in the publishing industry.

Content
"Why Don't You Dance?"
In 1977, Carver submitted a story with this title to Esquire, which Gordon Lish subsequently edited and retitled "I Am Going to Sit Down", but no version ever appeared in Esquire. The story was first published in Quarterly West in Autumn 1978 and later in The Paris Review in Spring 1981. The Quarterly West version incorporated many of Lish's suggested changes, while the final version was 9% shorter. It tells the story of a drinking man overseeing his yard sale. The reader gets the feeling that he may be selling all his possessions, looking to start life anew. A young couple stops by to select furniture for their new apartment. They haggle a little over prices and buy a TV and a bed. The drinking man tells the young woman to put a record on. When the music begins the man asks the couple to dance. Uncomfortably, they comply. Then the drinking man dances with the girl, and she says to him: "You must be desperate or something." Several weeks later, the woman is telling her friends about the man at his yard sale. She mocks the record player and records he gave them, saying: "Will you look at this shit?" The story ends with her trying to make sense of the man's situation before quitting her wondering altogether.
The story was adapted in the 2010 film Everything Must Go starring Will Ferrell and written and directed by Dan Rush.

"Viewfinder"
A hook-handed man takes a photograph of the narrator's house from the street, then sells it to him. The narrator asks the photographer in for coffee. The manuscript version of the same title appears in Beginners (2009).

"Mr. Coffee and Mr. Fixit"
A man reflects "about three years back" on his struggle to come to grips with a couple of troublesome relationships. He was surprised to see his elderly single mother kissing a man on the sofa upstairs. He says his kids were crazy and so was his wife, Myrna, who eventually fell for another man named Ross whom she met at Alcoholics Anonymous. He remembers how his father died and suggests to Myrna that they "hug awhile" and have a "real nice supper," and she responds somewhat lukewarmly. The manuscript version titled "Where Is Everyone?" appears in Beginners (2009).

"Gazebo"
Set in a roomy upstairs suite, motel managers Holly & Duane discuss the disintegration of their marriage. Duane has been having an affair with a cleaning lady, Juanita. Duane tries to convince Holly that their love can be rekindled and reconciled but Holly does not agree. Duane is left hopelessly bemoaning the future he had envisioned with Holly. The manuscript version of the same title appears in Beginners (2009).

"I Could See the Smallest Things"
Nancy wakes up in the middle of the night because of a noise outside. She realizes it's the open gate, and hesitantly she goes to the kitchen to smoke for a while before going out to investigate, leaving her alcoholic husband Cliff "passed out" and snoring loudly in bed. At the fence, Nancy meets her neighbor Sam, a widower, who is spreading insecticide to kill slugs which are ruining his garden. Nancy & Sam talk and it becomes clear Sam and Cliff, once good friends, have had a falling-out. Lonely and wishing to patch up their relationship, Sam asks Nancy to tell Cliff he said hello. Nancy says she will and goes back to bed, realizing she forgot to latch the gate shut. The manuscript version titled "Want to See Something?" appears in Beginners (2009).

"Sacks"
Les, a textbook salesman, reflects back a year ago on an incident where he met up with his father in a Sacramento airport. It's been two years since his father's divorce from his mother. While the wife was away, the father had been having an extramarital affair with a Stanley Products saleswoman. The father asks Les if everything is okay, and Les lies, saying everything is fine. A fissure seems to grow between the father and son during the uncomfortable, transient, confusing meeting. Fairly sure that his father will play a negligent to nonexistent role in his future, Les boards his flight. The manuscript version titled "The Fling" appears in Beginners (2009).

"The Bath"
On his birthday, young Scotty is walking to school when he is hit by a car and knocked unconscious. "The Bath" is a predecessor of "A Small, Good Thing," one of Carver's most famous stories, which was published in Cathedral. It is much shorter than "A Small, Good Thing" and ends on an ambiguous note as Scotty's mother goes home from the hospital to take a bath, which is where this version of the story gets its name.

"Tell the Women We're Going"
Two close childhood friends, identified by the author as Bill Jamison & Jerry Roberts, are out of school and have married. After Jerry married, Bill sensed a change in his friend, something that he'd never once shown. One afternoon, the two men leave both their wives and Jerry's kids to go out for a drive, for old-time's sake. They play pool and drink beer at the Rec Center, while reminiscing about the olden days. On their way out, they see two women biking down the road. Jerry proposes turning back and chatting them up, juvenile and excited. They pull up to the women and Bill introduces himself and Jerry, but the girls, named Barbara and Shannon, seem completely uninterested. They drive ahead and wait for the women to pass. The women, when they arrive, drop their bikes and cut down a path away from the men, which doesn't really bother Bill but does angers Jerry, who devises a plan to cut them off. The story ends in a surprise twist, with Jerry bashing Shannon and Barbara over their heads with a rock, ostensibly killing them both and proving Jerry's deep unhappiness with life. The manuscript version of the same title appears in Beginners (2009).

"After the Denim"
James and Edith Packer, an elderly couple, go out for the night to play bingo at the local community center. While there, James is perturbed by a young hippy-like couple dressed in denim who go on to ruin his fun and evening: they take the Packers' parking spot; James sees the young man cheating and confronts him but the man denies the allegation. Later, when the young girl gets bingo, everybody but James claps. James is certain the couple will use the victory money on drugs. That night as the Packers are getting ready for bed, Edith reveals to James that she's been "bleeding" and "spotting," and she'll require medical attention. Restless and upset over his wife's sickness, James wonders why it isn't the young couple who has all the problems. The manuscript version titled "If It Please You" appears in Beginners (2009).

"So Much Water So Close to Home"
As she was having breakfast, Claire, is shocked to learn that her husband, Stuart, and his three buddies, found the body of a girl washed up on the rivershore upon arriving in the afternoon for their yearly camping trip, as reported by the morning newspaper that day. Instead of reporting the body to the police immediately, the four rather enjoy their vacation, spending some time fishing, getting to eating, and drinking whisky as they sit by the fire, all the while the body of the dead girl lays there. As the quartet packs up the next morning, Stuart uses a payphone to alert the police about the corpse found by the riverbed. Claire feels deeply distanced from her husband, who she thought she knew, and cannot stop wondering about the dead girl, to whom she feels oddly connected. Inevitably, she starts believing Stuart and his friends could be behind the girl's murder. Claire wonders why they didn't go fishing locally, why didn't they report the body quickly, as she'd have. Later, after the body is identified and Stuart is at work, Claire reads the funeral plans in the newspaper and decides to attend. On her way to the funeral, a man in a pickup truck pulls her over and asks to talk to her, wants to make sure she's safe. Claustrophobic and frightened, Claire clicks her car locks shut and says she's fine. After the funeral Claire overhears a woman saying they caught the killer, but Claire is not so certain they have the right man. The story ends with Stuart making a sexual advance on Claire in the kitchen. As he reaches for her breasts, she hears water running in the sink and is reminded of the girl floating in the river. The manuscript version of the same title appears in Beginners (2009).

"The Third Thing That Killed My Father Off"
The character of Jack Fraser, in classical Carver style, tells the story of a local outsider named Dummy who worked in the same sawmill as Jack's father Del. Del gets Dummy to fill a pond on his land with bass, but Dummy eventually builds an electric fence around it so people stop coming by. Dummy drifts further into isolation and his wife starts going around with another man, much to his discontent. The story ends with Dummy murdering his wife and committing suicide by drowning in his beloved pond. Del impresses upon Jack what a wrong woman can turn a man into. Later, Jack understands Dummy's plight more clearly. The manuscript version titled "Dummy" appears in Beginners (2009).

"A Serious Talk"
Burt finds himself incapable of leaving his wife Vera alone. On Boxing Day, Burt comes back to his wife's house to try and explain away his poor behavior from the night before. On Christmas Day, Burt put too many logs in the fire which could've burned the place down, reckless as he always was. On his way out to make room for Vera's boyfriend Charlie, Burt finds it appropriate to steal six pies from the kitchen counter left unattended. On the 26th, Vera does not want to talk to Burt; she doesn't have the time, it's obvious she has plans already. Burt tries again and again to apologize but Vera does not think it's sincere. Burt notices cigarette butts that are not Vera's regular brand collected in the ashtray, "their ashtray," and feels out of place. While Vera is the bathroom the phone rings and she shouts at Burt to answer it. It's a call for Charlie and Burt responds curtly, saying he's "not here" before leaving the phone off the hook. Vera comes back into the kitchen, and it's clear she cannot tolerate Burt sticking around. The phone rings again and Vera says she'll answer it from the bedroom. Instead of hanging up when Vera commands, Burt takes a knife from the cabinet and cuts the cord in two. Vera realizes what's happened and yells for Burt to leave, saying she'll get a restraining order. Burt leaves calmly and, as he drives away in his car holding their ashtray, he is deludedly convinced that in a few weeks they'll have a "serious talk" and get back together. The manuscript version titled "Pie" appears in Beginners (2009).

"The Calm"
A man sitting in a barber's chair getting a haircut listens as three men waiting their turn argue about a hunting story one of the men is telling. The manuscript version of the same title appears in Beginners (2004).

"Little Things" (aka “Popular Mechanics”)
The protagonist is seen first packing a suitcase, all the while a woman swears at him and yells loudly, glad that he's finally leaving her. Their baby won't stop crying. The protagonist decides he wants to bring the baby with him but the woman won't let him even get near their baby. The two get into a tussle and a tug-of-war over the baby. The story ends with the man and the woman pulling tremendously on the baby, with somewhat ambiguously grim and dark possibilities. Titled "Little Things" in Where I'm Calling From (1988); the manuscript version titled "Mine" appears in Beginners (2009).

"Everything Stuck to Him"
A father tells his young adult daughter what life was like for their family when she was a young child, all while on vacation in Milan. The manuscript version titled "Distance" appears in Beginners (2009).

"One More Thing"
At the kitchen table, L.D. argues with his daughter Rae, age 15, about her beliefs. Maxine, the wife, comes home and notices L.D. is drunk. Maxine sides with Rae, saying she can like what she likes. In a moment of fury, L.D. throws a pickle jar through the window, shattering the glass. Maxine gives L.D. an ultimatum: he must pack his things and go or she'll call the police. L.D. starts packing, stuffing not only his belongings into his suitcase but also vindictively taking womanly toiletries he could make no use of. Taking one last look around, about to leave for good, L.D. says he has one more thing to tell his wife and daughter but, suddenly inarticulate, he is unable to put what he feels into words. The manuscript version of the same title appears in Beginners (2009).

"What We Talk About When We Talk About Love"
Mel McGinnis is a 45-year-old cardiologist married to Teresa, also known as Terri. They live together in Albuquerque. The narrator, Nick, describes Mel as tall and rangy with curly soft hair and Teresa (who is Mel's second wife) as bone-thin with a pretty face, dark eyes, and brown hair. Nick is 38 years old, and married to Laura, 35, who works as a legal secretary. The four sit around a table at Mel and Terri's, drinking gin in the afternoon.
They soon start to talk about love. Terri has had an abusive relationship; the abuse, she says, derives from love. Ed, Terri's former abusive boyfriend, "loved her so much he tried to kill her." Ed would beat Terri; he dragged her around the living room by her ankles knocking her into things along the way. Terri believes that Ed loved her and his abuse was his way of showing it. No matter what Terri says, Mel refuses to believe that was "love". Ed also stalked Mel and Terri and called Mel at work with threatening messages. At one point, Mel was so scared he bought a gun and made out a will. Mel even wrote to his brother in California, saying that "if something happened to him" to look for Ed.
Terri's abusive boyfriend eventually committed suicide after two attempts (as Terri sees it, another act of love). Ed's first attempt at suicide was when Terri had left him. Ed had drunk rat poison, but was rushed to the hospital where he was saved. In Ed's second, successful attempt he shot himself in the mouth. Terri and Mel argued about whether she could be in the hospital bedroom with him when he died. Terri won and was with Ed as he died; as Terri puts it, "He never came up out of it."
Soon afterward, Mel begins a story about an elderly couple struck by a drunk driver, a teenager who was pronounced dead at the scene. Mel was called into the hospital and saw how badly the elderly couple had been injured. He says that they had "multiple fractures, internal injuries, hemorrhaging, contusions, and lacerations." The couple were in casts and bandages from head to toe. Mel's point in telling the story is the husband's consternation when the couple was moved into the intensive care unit. Mel would visit the couple daily, and when he put his ear to the husband's mouth-hole, the latter told Mel he was upset because he could not see his wife through his eye-holes.
Mel strays from the topic with more talk about Ed, his personal thoughts about love, hatred toward his ex-wife, and life as a knight. Mel feels even though one loves a person, if something were to happen to them, the survivor would grieve but love again.
After finishing the second bottle of gin, the couples discuss going to dinner, but no one makes any moves to proceed with their plans.

Earlier version
Carver's original draft of the story "Beginners" was heavily edited by Gordon Lish, who cut out nearly half of Carver's story, adding in details of his own. Carver's original draft, released by his widow Tess Gallagher and published in a December 2007 issue of the New Yorker, reveals the extensive edits. For instance, the character Mel was originally named Herb, and the abusive boyfriend, renamed Ed by Lish, was originally named Carl. Additionally, Herb's story about the old couple was cut nearly in half, with Lish removing the story of the old couple's home life, love, and reunion in the hospital.  In Carver's original version, the two had separate rooms, which caused them to pine for each other and eventually led to a scene when they met again.  Lish removed all of this, rewrote the couple into the same room, but in body casts that prevented them from seeing each other, and then explained the old man's distress thus:

     "I mean, the accident was one thing, but it wasn't everything. I'd get up to his mouth-hole, you know, and he'd say no, it wasn't the accident exactly but it was because he couldn't see her through the eye-holes. He said that that was making him feel so bad. Can you imagine? I'm telling you, the man's heart was breaking because he couldn't turn his goddamn head and 'see' his goddamn wife."
      Mel looked around the table and shook his head at what he was going to say.
      "I mean, it was killing the old fart just because he couldn't 'look' at the fucking woman."

Lish also cut out eight paragraphs at the end, in which Terri communicates her worry over Herb's depression to Laura and Nick, and another aspect of love is shown as Laura comforts Terri, tying together all the types of love discussed in the story.

Editing
There was some contention between Raymond Carver and his editor Gordon Lish over several stories in the collection; the author complained about the "surgical amputation and transplant that might make them someway fit into the carton so the lid will close." Eventually, the book was published with Lish's extensive alterations, and received critical acclaim.
Shortly before his death, Carver arranged the publication of his own selection of 37 of his stories, Where I'm Calling From: Selected Tales.  He included some stories as edited by Lish, some restored  from his original manuscripts, and some unpublished stories. 
Carver's widow, Tess Gallagher, fought with Knopf for permission to republish the 17 stories in What We Talk About When We Talk About Love as they were originally written by Carver. These original versions eventually appeared in Beginners, published by Jonathan Cape in 2009, and in the Library of America volume Collected Stories.

In popular culture
The stories "So Much Water So Close to Home" and "Tell the Women We're Going" were adapted for Robert Altman's 1993 feature film Short Cuts. The former was the inspiration for the Paul Kelly song "Everything's Turning to White" on the album So Much Water So Close to Home and was also later adapted for the 2006 film Jindabyne.
The story "Why Don't You Dance?" serves as the basis for the award-winning 2004 short film Everything Goes as well as for the 2010 feature film Everything Must Go.
The 2012 film Stuck in Love uses the quote, "I could hear my heart beating. I could hear everyone's heart. I could hear the human noise we sat there making, not one of us moving, not even when the room went dark" from "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love" as the main character's, author Bill Borgens's, favorite quote. They are the last words spoken in the film.
Alejandro González Iñárritu's 2014 film Birdman or: The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance depicts an eclipsed Hollywood star, Riggan Thomson, who mounts a Broadway production of "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love" as its central storyline. The Broadway production includes several aspects of the Carver story—such as the four friends telling stories over a bottle of gin, and Mel's story about the couple in the car crash—but also includes other, more melodramatic storylines that are not part of the Carver story. Thomson attributes his choice of acting as a profession to a complimentary note he once received from Carver written on a cocktail napkin.
Passage 10:
Love Is on the Way
Love Is On the Way may refer to:

Love Is On the Way (album), a 1998 compilation album by American R&B/soul singer Luther Vandross
"Love Is On the Way" (song), a 1992 song by American rock band Saigon Kick
"Love Is On the Way", a song by Billy Porter, released on The First Wives Club soundtrack, later covered by Celine Dion
"Love Is On the Way", a song by R. Kelly from the 1995 album R. Kelly
"Love is On the Way", a song by Natalie Cole from the 1985 album Dangerous
"Love is On the Way", a song by Dave Koz from the 1999 album The Dance
"Love is On the Way", a 2004 single by Little Louie Vega and Blaze
"Love Is On the Way", a song by Austins Bridge from the 2010 album Times Like These
"Love Is On The Way", a song by Viktor Lazlo from the 1996 album Back to Front

See also
"Good Love is On the Way", a song by the John Mayer Trio from the 2005 album Try!
"My Love Is On the Way", a song from the 1954 musical The Golden Apple
Passage 11:
WMMW
WBOM (1470 AM) is a commercial radio station licensed to Meriden, Connecticut, and covering Central Connecticut. The station broadcasts an R&B format, aimed at the Hartford area. The station is owned by Full Power Radio, through Red Wolf Broadcasting Corporation. WBOM's programming is also heard on FM translator W273DS (102.5); the station's branding emphasizes the FM frequency.

History
The station's original construction permit was granted by the Federal Communications Commission on January 2, 1947; it was initially assigned the call sign WMMB, but changed to WMMW on March 4. It began broadcasting June 8, 1947, on 1470 kHz with 1,000 watts of power. The station was licensed to Silver City Crystal Company. An FM sister station, WMMW-FM (95.7), would be added by that December.On March 5, 2014, Buckley Broadcasting announced that it would sell its Connecticut radio stations, including WMMW, to Connoisseur Media. The sale was completed on July 7, 2014, at a price of $7,922,035. Connoisseur sold WMMW, along with the other Talk of Connecticut stations (except for WWCO in Waterbury), WDRC-FM in Hartford, and W272DO in New Haven, to Red Wolf Broadcasting for $8 million in January 2018; the sale was completed on March 29, 2018.The call sign was changed to WBOM on April 28, 2020. The station went silent in March 2022, and returned as "The New 102.5" on March 11, 2022.
Passage 12:
Morals for Women
Morals for Women (known in the UK as Farewell Party and in re-release as Big City Interlude) is a 1931 American pre-Code film produced and released by Tiffany Pictures, often considered a low budget studio. The film stars Bessie Love and Conway Tearle. It is preserved at the Library of Congress, has been released on DVD, and is in the public domain.
This film is a follow-up to Tiffany's 1925 silent Morals for Men, which also starred Conway Tearle and is also preserved at the Library of Congress.

Plot
Stenographer and gold digger Helen Huston (Love) has a personal relationship with her employer Van Dyne (Tearle), who has set her up in an apartment on Park Avenue. Her childhood beau visits New York and proposes to her, which prompts her to return to her hometown and seek advice from her family. News of her living situation is the talk of her hometown. In defending Helen's honor, her younger brother injures the town bully and must pay his large hospital bill. Helen returns to her New York boss to get the money. Her hometown sweetheart interrupts one of her parties to see her, and even upon learning about Helen's relationship with her boss, he wants to marry her.

Cast
Reception
The film received lukewarm reviews, and the morality of the story was questioned.
Passage 13:
The Pigskin Palooka
The Pigskin Palooka is a 1937 Our Gang short comedy film directed by Gordon Douglas.  It was the 159th Our Gang short (160th episode, 70th talking short, and 71st talking episode) that was released.

Plot
Having written of his football heroics in military school, Alfalfa returns home to a hero's welcome. But the fact is that Alfalfa never played a game in his life and borrowed Rex's, a classmate and football player's uniform to take a picture, angering him as well. No sooner has he stepped off the train than his old pal Spanky, manager of the gang's football team, informs Alfalfa that he's been slated to be star player in an upcoming gridiron battle—which is to be staged within the next few hours. Alfalfa winds up winning the game in a total fluke, which Buckwheat and Porky helped cause.

Cast
The Gang
Carl Switzer as Alfalfa
Darla Hood as Darla
Eugene Lee as Porky
George McFarland as Spanky
Billie Thomas as Buckwheat
Pete The Pup as himself

Additional cast
Rex Downing as Cadet (photographer)
Gary Jasgur as Junior (timekeeper)
Cullen Johnson as Scorekeeper
Dickie Jones as Spike
Sidney Kibrick as Spike's sidekick
Delmar Watson as Captain of the military academy's football team

Members of Spanky's team
Daniel Boone, John Collum, Charles Flickinger, Larry Harris, Paul Hilton, Darwood Kaye, Tommy McFarland, Donald Proffitt, Drew Roddy, Harold Switzer

Members of Spike's team
Hugh Chapman, Dix Davis, Barry Downing, Roger McGee, Fred Walburn, Robert Winkler

Game spectators and band players
Barry Downing, Bobby Callahan, Dix Davis, Floyd Fisher, Vincent Graeff, Payne B. Johnson, Henry Lee, Joe Levine, Priscilla Lyon, Drew Roddy, Norman Salling, Joe Straunch, Jr., Fred Walburn, Robert Winckler

See also
Our Gang filmography
Passage 14:
Raymond Carver
Raymond Clevie Carver Jr. (May 25, 1938 – August 2, 1988) was an American short story writer and poet. He contributed to the revitalization of the American short story during the 1980s.

Early life
Carver was born in Clatskanie, Oregon, a mill town on the Columbia River, and grew up in Yakima, Washington, the son of Ella Beatrice Carter (née Casey) and Clevie Raymond Carver. His father, a sawmill worker from Arkansas, was a fisherman and a heavy drinker. Carver's mother worked on and off as a waitress and a retail clerk. His brother, James Franklin Carver, was born in 1943.
Carver was educated at local schools in Yakima. In his spare time, he read mostly novels by Mickey Spillane or publications such as Sports Afield and Outdoor Life, and hunted and fished with friends and family.
After graduating from Yakima High School in 1956, Carver worked with his father at a sawmill in California. In June 1957, at age 19, he married 16-year-old Maryann Burk, who had just graduated from a private Episcopal school for girls. Their daughter, Christine La Rae, was born in December 1957. Their second child, a boy named Vance Lindsay, was born a year later. Carver worked as a delivery man, janitor, library assistant, and sawmill laborer, while Maryann worked as an administrative assistant, high school English teacher, salesperson, and waitress.

Writing career
Carver moved to Paradise, California, with his family in 1958 to be close to his mother-in-law. He became interested in writing while attending Chico State College and enrolled in a creative writing course taught by the novelist John Gardner, then a recent doctoral graduate of the Iowa Writers' Workshop, who became a mentor and had a major influence on Carver's life and career. In 1961, Carver's first published story, "The Furious Seasons", appeared. More florid than his later work, the story strongly bore the influence of William Faulkner. "Furious Seasons" was later used as a title for a collection of stories published by Capra Press, and is part of the collection, No Heroics, Please and Call If You Need Me.Carver continued his studies under the short story writer Richard Cortez Day (like Gardner, a recent PhD alumnus of the Iowa program) beginning in autumn 1960 at Humboldt State College in Arcata, California. He chose not to take the foreign language courses required by the English program and received a B.A. in general studies in 1963. During this period he was first published and served as editor for Toyon, the college's literary magazine, in which he published several of his own pieces under his own name as well as the pseudonym John Vale.With his B-minus average, exacerbated by his penchant to forsake coursework for literary endeavors, ballasted by a sterling recommendation from Day, Carver was accepted into the Iowa Writers' Workshop on a $1,000 fellowship for the 1963–1964 academic year. Homesick for California and unable to fully adjust to the program's upper middle class milieu, he only completed 12 credits out of the 30 required for a M.A. degree or 60 for the M.F.A. degree. Although program director Paul Engle awarded him a fellowship for a second year of study after Maryann Carver personally interceded and compared her husband's plight to Tennessee Williams' deleterious experience in the program three decades earlier, Carver decided to leave the University of Iowa at the end of the semester. According to biographer Carol Sklenicka, Carver falsely claimed to have received an M.F.A. from Iowa in 1966 on later curricula vitae. Maryann, who postponed completing her education to support her husband's educational and literary endeavors, eventually graduated from San Jose State College in 1970 and taught English at Los Altos High School until 1977. After completing graduate work at Stanford, she briefly enrolled in the University of California, Santa Barbara's English doctoral program when Carver taught at the institution as a visiting lecturer in 1974.In the mid-1960s, Carver and his family resided in Sacramento, California, where he briefly worked at a bookstore before taking a position as a night custodian at Mercy Hospital. He did all of the janitorial work in the first hour and then wrote through the rest of his shift. He audited classes at what was then Sacramento State College, including workshops with poet Dennis Schmitz. Carver and Schmitz soon became friends, and Carver wrote and published his first book of poems, Near Klamath, under Schmitz's guidance.1967 was a landmark year for Carver with the appearance of "Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?" in Martha Foley's annual Best American Short Stories anthology and the impending publication of Near Klamath by the English Club of Sacramento State College. He briefly enrolled in the library science graduate program at the University of Iowa that summer but returned to California following the death of his father. Shortly thereafter, the Carvers relocated to Palo Alto, California, so he could take his first white-collar job, at Science Research Associates, a subsidiary of IBM in nearby Menlo Park, California, where he worked intermittently as a textbook editor and public relations director through 1970.Following a 1968 sojourn to Israel, the Carvers relocated to San Jose, California; as Maryann finished her undergraduate degree, he continued his graduate studies in library science at San Jose State through the end of 1969 before failing once again to take a degree. During this period, he established vital literary connections with Gordon Lish, who worked across the street from Carver as director of linguistic research at Behavioral Research Laboratories, and the poet/publisher George Hitchcock.After the publication of "Neighbors" in the June 1971 issue of Esquire at the instigation of Lish (by now ensconced as the magazine's fiction editor), Carver began to teach at the University of California, Santa Cruz at the behest of provost James B. Hall, an Iowa alumnus and early mentor to Ken Kesey at the University of Oregon, commuting from his new home in Sunnyvale, California.
Having endured a succession of failed applications to the Stegner Fellowship, Carver was admitted to the prestigious non-degree Stanford University graduate creative writing program for the 1972–1973 term, where he cultivated friendships with Kesey-era luminaries Ed McClanahan and Gurney Norman in addition to contemporaneous fellows Chuck Kinder, Max Crawford, and William Kittredge. The $4,000 stipend enabled the Carvers to buy a house in Cupertino, California. He also took on another teaching job at the University of California, Berkeley that year and briefly rented a pied-à-terre in the city; this development was precipitated by his initiation of an extramarital affair with Diane Cecily, a University of Montana administrator and mutual friend of Kittredge who would subsequently marry Kinder.During his years of working at miscellaneous jobs, rearing children, and trying to write, Carver started abusing alcohol. By his own admission, he gave up writing and took to full-time drinking. In the fall semester of 1973, Carver was a visiting lecturer in the Iowa Writers' Workshop with John Cheever, but Carver stated that they did less teaching than drinking and almost no writing. With the assistance of Kinder and Kittredge, he attempted to simultaneously commute to Berkeley and maintain his lectureship at Santa Cruz; after missing all but a handful of classes due to the inherent logistical hurdles of this arrangement and various alcohol-related illnesses, Hall gently enjoined Carver to resign his position. The next year, after leaving Iowa City, Carver went to a treatment center to attempt to overcome his alcoholism, but continued drinking for another three years.His first short story collection, Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?, was published in 1976. The collection itself was shortlisted for the National Book Award, though it sold fewer than 5,000 copies that year.

Personal life and death
Decline of first marriage
The following excerpt from Scott Driscoll's review of Maryann Burk Carver's 2006 memoir describes the decline of her and Raymond's marriage.

The fall began with Ray's trip to Missoula, Mont., in '72 to fish with friend and literary helpmate Bill Kittredge. That summer Ray fell in love with Diane Cecily, an editor at the University of Montana, whom he met at Kittredge's birthday party. "That's when the serious drinking began. It broke my heart and hurt the children. It changed everything."
"By fall of '74", writes Carver, "he was more dead than alive. I had to drop out of the PhD program so I could get him cleaned up and drive him to his classes". Over the next several years, Maryann's husband physically abused her. Friends urged her to leave Raymond.
"But I couldn't. I really wanted to hang in there for the long haul. I thought I could outlast the drinking. I'd do anything it took. I loved Ray, first, last and always."
Carver describes, without a trace of rancor, what finally put her over the edge. In the fall of '78, with a new teaching position at the University of Texas at El Paso, Ray started seeing Tess Gallagher, a writer from Port Angeles, who would become his muse and wife near the end of his life. "It was like a contretemps. He tried to call me to talk about where we were. I missed the calls. He knew he was about to invite Tess to Thanksgiving." So he wrote a letter instead.

"I thought, I've gone through all those years fighting to keep it all balanced. Here it was, coming at me again, the same thing. I had to get on with my own life. But I never fell out of love with him."
After being hospitalized three times between June 1976 and February or March 1977, Carver began his "second life" and stopped drinking on June 2, 1977, with the help of Alcoholics Anonymous. While he continued to regularly smoke marijuana and later experimented with cocaine at the behest of Jay McInerney during a 1980 visit to New York City, Carver believed he would have died of alcoholism at the age of 40 had he not overcome his drinking.

Second marriage
In November 1977, Carver met the poet Tess Gallagher at a writers' conference in Dallas, Texas. Gallagher later remembered feeling "as if my life until then had simply been a rehearsal for meeting him." Beginning in January 1979, Carver and Gallagher lived together in El Paso, Texas, in a borrowed cabin near Port Angeles, Washington, and in Tucson, Arizona. 
In 1980, the two moved to Syracuse, New York, where Gallagher had been appointed the coordinator of the creative writing program at Syracuse University; Carver taught as a professor in the English department. He and Gallagher jointly purchased a house in Syracuse, at 832 Maryland Avenue. In ensuing years, the house became so popular that the couple had to hang a sign outside that read "Writers At Work" in order to be left alone. 
In 1982, he and his first wife, Maryann, were divorced.In 1988, six weeks prior to his death, Carver and Gallagher married in Reno, Nevada.

Death
On August 2, 1988, Carver died in Port Angeles, Washington, from lung cancer at the age of 50. In the same year, he was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters. He is buried at Ocean View Cemetery in Port Angeles, Washington. The inscription on his tombstone reads:

His poem "Gravy" is also inscribed.
As Carver's will directed, Tess Gallagher assumed the management of his literary estate.

Awards and memorials
Carver was nominated for the National Book Award for his first major-press collection, "Will You Please Be Quiet, Please" in 1977 and the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for his third major-press collection, Cathedral (1984), the volume generally perceived as his best. Included in the latter collection are the award-winning stories "A Small, Good Thing", and "Where I'm Calling From". John Updike selected the latter for inclusion in The Best American Short Stories of the Century. For his part, Carver perceived Cathedral as a watershed in his career for its shift toward a more optimistic and confidently poetic style amid the diminution of Lish's literary influence.
Carver won five O. Henry Awards with "Are These Actual Miles" (originally titled "What Is It?") (1972), "Put Yourself in My Shoes" (1974), "Are You A Doctor?" (1975), "A Small, Good Thing" (1983), and "Errand" (1988).In Carver's birth town of Clatskanie, Oregon, a memorial park and statue are at the corner of Lillich and Nehalem Streets, across from the library. A block away is the building where Carver was born.

Legacy and posthumous publications
In December 2006, Gallagher published an essay in The Sun magazine, titled "Instead of Dying", about alcoholism and Carver's having maintained his sobriety. The essay is an adaptation of a talk she initially delivered at the Welsh Academy's Academi Intoxication Conference in 2006. The first lines read: "Instead of dying from alcohol, Raymond Carver chose to live. I would meet him five months after this choice, so I never knew the Ray who drank, except by report and through the characters and actions of his stories and poems."Chuck Kinder's Honeymooners: A Cautionary Tale (2001) is a roman à clef about his friendship with Carver in the 1970s. Carver's high school sweetheart and first wife, Maryann Burk Carver, wrote a memoir of her years with Carver, What it Used to be Like: A Portrait of My Marriage to Raymond Carver (2006).
In 2009, The New York Times Book Review and San Francisco Chronicle named Carol Sklenicka's unauthorized biography, Raymond Carver: A Writer's Life (2009), published by Scribner, one of the Best Ten Books of that year; and the San Francisco Chronicle deemed it: "exhaustively researched and definitive biography". Carver's widow, Tess Gallagher, refused to engage with Sklenicka.His final (incomplete) collection of seven stories, titled Elephant in Britain (included in "Where I'm Calling From") was composed in the five years before his death. The nature of these stories, especially "Errand", have led to some speculation that Carver was preparing to write a novel. Only one piece of this work has survived – the fragment "The Augustine Notebooks", first printed in No Heroics, Please.Tess Gallagher fought with Knopf for permission to republish the stories in What We Talk About When We Talk About Love as they were originally written by Carver, as opposed to the heavily edited and altered versions that appeared in 1981 under the editorship of Gordon Lish. On October 1, 2009, the book, entitled Beginners, was released in hardback in Great Britain, followed by its publication in the Library of America edition which collected all of Carver's short fiction in a single volume.The Raymond Carver Reading Series at Syracuse University is a reading series program which annually brings 12 to 14 prominent writers to the campus. It is presented by the Creative Writing Program in SU's College of Arts and Sciences.

Literary characteristics
Carver's career emphasized short stories and poetry. He described himself as "inclined toward brevity and intensity" and "hooked on writing short stories" (in the foreword of Where I'm Calling From, a collection published in 1988 and a recipient of an honorable mention in the 2006 New York Times article citing the best works of fiction of the previous 25 years). Another stated reason for his brevity was "that the story [or poem] can be written and read in one sitting." This was not simply a preference but, particularly at the beginning of his career, a practical consideration as he juggled writing with work. His subject matter was often focused on blue-collar experience, and was clearly reflective of his own life.Characteristics of minimalism are generally seen as one of the hallmarks of Carver's work, although, as reviewer David Wiegand notes:
Carver never thought of himself as a minimalist or in any category, for that matter.
"He rejected categories generally," Sklenicka says. "I don't think he had an abstract mind at all. He just wasn't built that way, which is why he's so good at picking the right details that will stand for many things."
Carver's editor at Esquire, Gordon Lish, was instrumental in shaping his prose in this direction – where his earlier tutor John Gardner had advised Carver to use fifteen words instead of twenty-five, Lish instructed Carver to use five in place of fifteen. Objecting to the "surgical amputation and transplantation" of Lish's heavy editing, Carver eventually broke with him. During this time, Carver also submitted poetry to James Dickey, then poetry editor of Esquire.
Carver's style has also been described as dirty realism, which connected him with a group of writers in the 1970s and 1980s that included Richard Ford and Tobias Wolff with both of whom Carver was closely acquainted, as well as others such as Ann Beattie, Frederick Barthelme, and Jayne Anne Phillips. With the exception of Beattie, who wrote about upper-middle-class people, these were writers who focused on sadness and loss in the everyday lives of ordinary people—often lower-middle class or isolated and marginalized people.In his essay "On Influence", Carver states that, while he was an admirer of Ernest Hemingway's fiction, he never saw him as an influence, citing instead the work of Lawrence Durrell.

Works
Fiction
Collections
Will You Please Be Quiet, Please? (first published 1976)
Furious Seasons and other stories (1977)
What We Talk About When We Talk About Love (1981)
Cathedral (1983)
Elephant (1988) – this title only published in Great Britain; included as a section of Where I'm Calling From: New & Selected Stories in the U.S.
Beginners (2009)

Compilations
Where I'm Calling From: New & Selected Stories (1988)
Short Cuts: Selected Stories (1993) – published to accompany the Robert Altman film Short Cuts
Collected Stories (2009) – complete short fiction including Beginners (see section above for wiki-link)

Poetry
Collections
Near Klamath (1968)
Winter Insomnia (1970)
At Night The Salmon Move (1976)
Fires (1983)
Where Water Comes Together With Other Water (1985)
Ultramarine (1986)
A New Path To The Waterfall (1989)
Gravy (Unknown year)

Compilations
In a Marine Light: Selected Poems (1988)
All of Us: The Collected Poems (1996)

Screenplays
Dostoevsky (1982, with Tess Gallagher) (published in 1985)
Purple Lake (1983, with Michael Cimino) (unpublished)

Films and theatre adaptations
Short Cuts directed by Robert Altman (1993), based on nine Carver short stories and a poem
Everything Goes directed by Andrew Kotatko (2004), starring Hugo Weaving, Abbie Cornish and Sullivan Stapleton based on Carver's short story "Why Don't You Dance?"
Whoever Was Using This Bed, also directed by Andrew Kotatko (2016), starring Jean-Marc Barr, Radha Mitchell and Jane Birkin, based on Carver's short story of the same name
Jindabyne directed by Ray Lawrence (2006), based on Carver's short story "So Much Water So Close to Home"
Everything Must Go directed by Dan Rush (2010), and starring Will Ferrell, based on Carver's short story "Why Don't You Dance?"
Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance), directed by Alejandro G. Iñárritu, depicts the mounting of a Broadway production of "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love" as its central storyline. The film's main character, Riggan Thomson, attributes his choice of acting as a profession to a complimentary note he once received from Raymond Carver written on a cocktail napkin. The film also preludes with Carver's poem "Late Fragment." In February 2015, Birdman won four Oscars, including the Academy Award for Best Picture.
Passage 15:
Night 'n' Gales
Night 'n' Gales is a 1937 Our Gang short comedy film directed by Gordon Douglas.  It was the 156th Our Gang short (157th episode, 68th talking short, and 69th talking episode that was released.

Plot
Though he would rather spend his evening in peace and quiet, Mr. Hood (Johnny Arthur) is forced to endure the offkey harmonizing of The Four Nightengales, a junior singing aggregation composed of Spanky, Alfalfa, Buckwheat and Porky.
After interminable choruses of "Home! Sweet Home!", the four boys are finally ready to leave, but are forced to stay in the Hood home due to a sudden thunderstorm. Both Darla and her mother are delighted, but Mr. Hood is dismayed, especially when he is told that he must share his bed with the Four Nightengales. Driven crazy by the boys' unintentionally disruptive shenanigans, Mr. Hood escapes to the living room and tries to sleep on the couch, covering himself with a bear rug to keep warm. Naturally, the gang mistake him for a real bear, and comic chaos ensues.

Notes
Comedian Johnny Arthur, who played Spanky McFarland's absent-minded father in Anniversary Trouble, returns as Darla's father in Night 'n' Gales. He was so popular with audiences that he played Darla's father once again in Feed 'em and Weep.

Cast
The Gang
Darla Hood as Darla
Eugene Lee as Porky
George McFarland as Spanky
Carl Switzer as Alfalfa
Billie Thomas as Buckwheat
Gary Jasgur as Junior

Additional cast
Johnny Arthur as Arthur Hood, Darla's father
Elaine Shepard as Darla's mother

See also
Our Gang filmography
Passage 16:
Freak Talks About Sex
Freak Talks About Sex, released for home video as Blowin' Smoke (its working title was Syracuse Muse), is a 1999 film starring Steve Zahn and Josh Hamilton. The movie was shot in Auburn and Syracuse, New York. It deals with issues such as love, sex, life after college, and living in a medium-sized city, in this case Syracuse.

Plot
Dave Keenan (Josh Hamilton) left Syracuse for a new life in Arizona. When that didn't work out, he moved back to Syracuse. He works a dead-end job at a department store in a mall, his car has broken down (and the mechanic is taking forever to fix it) and his ex-girlfriend (Arabella Field) wants him to join her in New York City. To make matters more complicated, one of his co-workers, a high school girl named Nichole (Heather McComb) seems to be getting romantically interested in him. His best friend Freak (Steve Zahn) is around for him to hang out with and offer such choice philosophical observations, like "I can't think of a single movie that couldn't be improved by a lesbian sex scene." Dave is stuck in a rut and has to decide what to do with his life.

Soundtrack
Tugboat Annie - "Stay Inside"
The Wrench - "Girl"
Scary Chicken - "Favorite Channel"
Chic - "Le Freak"
The Tortillas You Wanted - "Girls and Cars"
Blondie - "Heart of Glass"

External links
A trailer for the movie
Freak Talks About Sex at IMDb
Freak Talks About Sex at Rotten Tomatoes