Passage 1:
Sri Lanka Matha
"Sri Lanka Matha" (English: "Mother Sri Lanka"; Sinhala: ශ්‍රී ලංකා මාතා, romanized: Śrī Lańkā Mātā; Tamil: ஸ்ரீ லங்கா தாயே, romanized: Srī Laṅkā Tāyē) is the national anthem of Sri Lanka. "Sri Lanka Matha" was composed by Ananda Samarakoon and was originally titled "Namo Namo Matha" ("Salute! Salute! Motherland")."Sri Lanka Matha" was first performed at an official ceremony on 4 February 1949 at the Independence Memorial Hall in Torrington Square during the national day ceremony. The anthem was given full constitutional recognition in the 1978 Second Republican Constitution.

History
There are differing accounts as to the origin of the "Sri Lanka Matha". The most widely held view is that Sri Lankan composer Ananda Samarakoon wrote the music and lyrics to the song, inspired/influenced by the Indian Bengali poet Rabindranath Tagore. A minority suggest that Tagore wrote the anthem in full. Some have suggested that Tagore wrote the music whilst Samarakoon wrote the lyrics. Tagore being directly involved in the creation of the song has been denied by some historians like Indian Lipi Ghosh and Sri Lankan Sandagomi Coperahewa. Samarakoon had been a pupil of Tagore at Visva-Bharati University, Santiniketan. After returning to Ceylon Samarakoon taught music at Mahinda College, Galle. The song, which was then known as "Namo Namo Mata", was first sung by students at Mahinda College. After it was sung by the choir from Musaeus College, Colombo at a public event it became hugely popular in Ceylon and was widely played on radio.Prior to Ceylon's independence (1948) the Lanka Gandharva Sabha had organised a competition to find a national anthem. Among the entries were "Namo Namo Matha" by Samarakoon and "Sri Lanka Matha Pala Yasa Mahima" by P. B. Illangasinghe and Lionel Edirisinghe. The latter won the competition but this was controversial as Illangasinghe and Edirisinghe were members of the judging panel. "Sri Lanka Matha Pala Yasa Mahima" was broadcast by Radio Ceylon on the morning of 4 February 1948, independence day, but it was not sung at the official Freedom Day celebrations. Ceylon continued to use the UK's national anthem as its official national anthem after independence. At the first independence day ceremony held on 4 February 1949 at the Independence Memorial Hall in Torrington Square both "Namo Namo Matha" and "Sri Lanka Matha Pala Yasa Mahima" were sung, in Sinhala and Tamil, as "national songs".More specifically, in 1950 Minister of Finance J. R. Jayewardene requested that the government recognise Samarakoon's "Namo Namo Matha" as the official national anthem. The government appointed a committee headed by Edwin Wijeyeratne, Minister of Home Affairs and Rural Development, to pick a new national anthem. The committee heard several songs but, after much deliberation, picked "Namo Namo Matha". The committee made a minor change to Samarakoon's song, with his approval, changing the tenth line from "Nawajeewana Damine Newatha Apa Awadi Karan Matha" to "Nawa Jeewana Demine Nithina Apa Pubudu Karan Matha". The committee's decision was endorsed by the government on 22 November 1951. The anthem was translated into the Tamil language by M. Nallathamby. "Namo Namo Matha" was first sung as Ceylon's official national anthem at the independence day parade in Colombo in 1952.In the late 1950s controversy arose over its first line, "Namo Namo Matha, Apa Sri Lanka". It was deemed to be "unlucky" and blamed for the country's misfortunes including the deaths of two prime ministers. In February 1961 the government changed the line to their present form, "Sri Lanka Matha, Apa Sri Lanka", despite Samarakoon's strong opposition. Samarakoon committed suicide in April 1962, leaving a note complaining that its lyrics had been mutilated.The Second Republican Constitution of 1978 gave "Sri Lanka Matha" constitutional recognition.

Multilingual
The Sri Lankan national anthem is available in an identical version in two languages, Sinhala and Tamil, both official languages of the country. It is just one of a number that are sung in more than one language: Belgium (French, Dutch, and German), Canada (English, French and Inuktitut), Finland (Finnish, Swedish), New Zealand (English and Māori), South Africa (Xhosa, Zulu, Sesotho, Afrikaans and English), Suriname (Dutch and Sranan Tongo) and Switzerland (German, French, Italian and Romansh)."Sri Lanka Thaaye", the Tamil version of the Sri Lankan national anthem, is an exact translation of "Sri Lanka Matha", the Sinhala version, and has the same music. Although it has existed since independence in 1948 it was generally only sung in the north and east of the country where the Tamil language predominates. The Sinhala version of the Constitution uses Sinhala lyrics while the Tamil version of the constitution uses Tamil lyrics. Per the constitution both Sinhala and Tamil are official and national languages and thus the anthem could be sung in both languages.The majority of Sri Lankans (around 75%) speak the Sinhala language. More specifically, "Tamil is the native language for the Tamil people, who constitute about 15% of Sri Lankans, and for Muslims who are nearly 10%", according to the BBC. Until early 2016, the Sinhala version was the only one to be used during official government events and it was the only version used during international sports and other events. Although the Sinhala version of the anthem was used at official/state events, the Tamil version was also sung at some events in spite of the unofficial ban which ended in early 2016. 
The Sinhala version of Sri Lanka Matha was used in all parts of the country with the exception of the North and the East which have a large Tamil population. Some reports indicate that the Tamil version was used at official events held in the Tamil speaking regions in the North and East of Sri Lanka. The Tamil version was sung at Tamil medium schools throughout the country. The Tamil version was even used during the period when Sinhala was the only official language of the country (1956–87).

Tamil version controversy
On 12 December 2010 The Sunday Times reported that the Cabinet of Sri Lanka headed by President Mahinda Rajapaksa had taken the decision to scrap the Tamil translation of "Sri Lanka Matha" at official and state functions, as "in no other country was the national anthem used in more than one language" - even though the national anthems of Belgium, Switzerland, Canada and those of several other countries have more than one language version. The Cabinet's decision had followed a paper on the national flag and national anthem produced by Public Administration and Home Affairs Minister W. D. J. Senewiratne. The paper had drawn on the Singaporean model where the national anthem is sung in the official lyrics and not any translation of the lyrics. Based on this the paper recommended that the Sri Lankan national anthem only be sung in Sinhala and the Tamil translation be abolished. The paper's authors had failed to realise that the official lyrics of the Singaporean national anthem are in Malay, a minority language (75% of Singaporeans are Chinese).Government minister Wimal Weerawansa had labelled the Tamil version a "joke" on Derana TV, and had cited India as an analogy. Some journalists, such as D. B. S. Jeyaraj, claimed that it was wrong of Weerawansa  to cite India as an analogy because according to them the Indian national anthem was not in Hindi, which is the most widely spoken language of India, but in Bengali, a minority language. Although sources based on an official Government of India website state that the Indian National anthem was adopted in its Hindi version by the Constituent Assembly of India, the proceedings of the Constituent Assembly of India on 24 January 1950 does not mention that the National Anthem was "adopted", nor does it mention that it was done so in its Hindi version. In actual practice the unaltered Bengali version is the version sung as the National Anthem, with its words in original Bengali Tatsama, a highly Sanskritized form of Bengali that has Sanskrit words common to both Hindi and Bengali.The Cabinet's December 2010 decision to scrap the Tamil translation of the anthem (which was not subsequently enacted) caused much furore in Sri Lanka. Later, the government denied allegations that the Tamil translation was to be abolished. The Presidential Secretariat has stated that there was no basis to the media report and follow up reports which intimated the same. Nevertheless, an unofficial ban on the Tamil version came into being as fearful public officials in Tamil speaking areas stopped using the Tamil version or blocked attempts to use it. The Sri Lankan Army forcefully stopped any use of the Tamil version and taught school children to sing only the Sinhala version.In March 2015 newly elected President Maithripala Sirisena announced that he would be issuing a circular which would state that there was no ban on singing the national anthem in Tamil. Sirisena's announcement was attacked by Sinhalese Buddhist nationalists.During Sri Lanka's 68th national independence day celebrations on 4 February 2016, the Tamil version of the anthem was sung for the first time since 1949 at an official government event, the independence day celebrations. Lifting of the unofficial ban on the Tamil version had been approved by President Maithripala Sirisena (who had said he would unite the nation after the nearly 26-year civil war that ended in 2009) and by others in the government. This step was viewed as part of the plan for "post-civil war ethnic reconciliation".Naturally, Sri Lanka Matha was also sung in Sinhalese. Some groups, and Sri Lanka's former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, were opposed to the government officially allowing the Tamil version to be sung.In 2020, the Sri Lankan government stopped using the Tamil version of the national anthem at the main Independence Day celebration. However, regional independence day celebrations including those with government involvement in regions with significant Tamil populations continue to sing in both Tamil and Sinhala.

Lyrics
Sinhala version
Tamil version
Poetic English translation
Notes
See also
Sri Lankan Civil War
Tamil Eelam
Passage 2:
The Devil Went Down to Georgia
"The Devil Went Down to Georgia" is a song written and performed by the Charlie Daniels Band and released on their 1979 album Million Mile Reflections.The song is written in the key of D minor. Although uncredited, Vassar Clements originally wrote the basic melody an octave lower, in a tune called "Lonesome Fiddle Blues" released on Clements' self-titled 1975 album on which Charlie Daniels played guitar. The Charlie Daniels Band moved it up an octave and put words to it. The song's verses are closer to being spoken rather than sung (i.e., recitation), and tell the story of a young man named Johnny, in a variant on the classic deal with the Devil. The performances of the Devil and Johnny are played as instrumental bridges. The song was the band's biggest hit, reaching No. 3 on the Billboard Hot 100, prevented from further chart movement by "After the Love Has Gone" by Earth, Wind and Fire and "My Sharona" by The Knack.

Content
The song tells a story about the Devil's failure to gain a young man's soul through a fiddle-playing contest. The song begins as a disappointed Devil arrives in Georgia, apparently "way behind" on stealing souls, when he comes upon a young man named Johnny who is playing a fiddle, and quite well. Out of desperation, the Devil, who claims to also be a fiddle player, wagers a fiddle of gold against Johnny's soul to see who is the better fiddler.  Although Johnny believes taking the Devil's bet might be a sin, he fearlessly accepts, confidently boasting "I'm the best that's ever been."
The Devil plays first, backed by a band of demon musicians. When he has finished, Johnny compliments him ("Well, you're pretty good, old son.") and takes his own turn, rendering at least four old-time songs, named (though not played) in the Charlie Daniels Band recording—the third of the four being identified not by title, but by an excerpt of its lyrics:

"Fire on the Mountain," the name of an early 19th-century fiddle tune, and also the name of Daniels' 1974 album,
"The House of the Rising Sun," a traditional American southern folk song,
"Chicken in the bread pan pickin' out dough," which was famously used in Bob Wills & His Texas Playboys' song "Ida Red," and
"Granny Will Your Dog Bite."Realizing he has been defeated, the devil lays his golden fiddle at Johnny's feet. Johnny then invites the devil to "c'mon back if y'ever wanna try again" before repeating his claim to be "the best that's ever been".  The resolution is not without ambiguity.  While the devil seems to have failed, Johnny's indulgence in the sin of pride indicates the devil may have won his soul after all through clever subterfuge.

Reception
Cash Box praised the "engaging narrative story line" and said the song has "thundering piano", "screaming fiddle work", "pounding drums and screeching guitar". Record World said that Daniels "administers heavy doses of both [storytelling and fiddle-playing] with producer John Boylan capturing the excitement like no one else can."

Censorship
Johnny's final boast, from the album version of the song, goes, "I done told you once, you son of a bitch, I'm the best that's ever been".  But to accommodate radio airplay for Country and Top 40 formats, Daniels changed the lyric for the single release to, "'Cause I told you once, you son of a gun", though AOR stations continued to use the unaltered version.

Musical references
The ballad's story is a derivative of the traditional deal with the Devil motif. Charlie Daniels has stated in interviews, "I don't know where it came from, but it just did. Well, I think I might know where it came from, it may have come from an old poem called 'The Mountain Whippoorwill' that Stephen Vincent Benét wrote many, many years ago (1925), that I had in high school."

Personnel
Charlie Daniels - guitar, fiddle, vocals
Tom Crain - guitar, vocals
"Taz" DiGregorio - keyboards, vocals
Fred Edwards - drums, percussion
James W. Marshall - drums, percussion
Charles Hayward - bass

Parodies and covers
The Levellers released a version of the song in 1991.
Although it is frequently misattributed to David Allan Coe or "Weird Al" Yankovic, the musician Travis Meyer performed a parody entitled "The Devil Went to Jamaica" circa 1998, in which Johnny is recast as a Jamaican drug dealer who is challenged by the devil to a pot-smoking contest to see whose marijuana is best: his, or Johnny's.
On a 1980 The Muppet Show episode (Episode 420), the Muppet versions of the Devil and Johnny are portrayed in an opening number cover of the song.
The rap group K.M.C. Kru released a hip hop re-imagining of the song entitled "The Devil Came Up to Michigan" in 1991, featuring the devil and a deejay competing for a turntable of gold.
In the 2000 movie Coyote Ugly, the original song version by the Charlie Daniels Band is sung and danced to as an on-bar line dance by the troupe of female bartenders.
Steve Ouimette (with Ed DeGenaro and Geoff Tyson) performed a cover of the song for the 2007 video game Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock and, eventually, his 2010 album Epic. This version uses electric guitars instead of fiddles, though the original lyrics are still performed. It is played as the conclusion of the game in a simulated guitar battle with the devil. Daniels objected to this version on the grounds that the devil may win the contest, which he referred to as "violating the very essence of the song".
In 2013, the Boston-based roots rockers Adam Ezra Group recorded a parody version, "The Devil Came up to Boston", with Boston-focused lyrics. In this version's official music video, group leader Adam Ezra, who wrote the lyrics to the parody, narrates it with an exaggerated version of his real-life Boston accent, and the Devil is depicted as a New York Yankees fan, playing off the historic rivalry between the Yankees and Boston Red Sox.
The pop singer and electric violinist Michelle Lambert recorded a version of the song in 2015, and released a music video. In her rendition "Johnny" is replaced by "Michelle".
A cappella group Home Free recorded a version of the song in collaboration with Taylor Davis and Charlie Daniels playing fiddle, released in September 2015. The narration is performed by Home Free bass singer Tim Foust.
The rock band Blues Traveler often performs this song in concert, with John Popper playing the fiddle parts on harmonica. They featured a live version of the song on their 2006 EP ¡Bastardos en Vivo!
Robot Chicken featured a composite parody of the song along with the animated series Spawn in episode 49 of season 3, where Malebolgia, an infernal lord, is challenged by Spawn to a fiddle duel set to a similar tune.
In the Futurama episode "Hell is Other Robots", Leela must challenge the robot devil in a fiddle-playing contest to win back Bender's soul. Also included as a prize for the winner of the contest is a solid gold fiddle.
The funk metal band Primus covered the song and featured it, in the form of a stop motion animated music video, on a CD-ROM that was included with the 1998 release of their EP Rhinoplasty.
British Punk band The Toy Dolls recorded a version called 'The Devil Went Down to Scunthorpe', which used a guitar duel instead of a fiddle duel between Johnny and the Devil.
The Christian parody band ApologetiX recorded a parody called "The Devil Went Down to Jordan" which records the Devil's attempt to tempt Jesus in the wilderness.
British comedy folk band The Bar-Steward Sons of Val Doonican recorded a version called 'The Devil Went Down To Barnsley', in which the devil has a fiddle duel with Bjorn Doonicansson.
The American metal band Nature of Rebel Minds  released a cover of the song in 2019 and released an official music video to youtube as well. 
The American nu metal band Korn recorded a cover of the song in 2020 which featured the band playing the devil and rapper Yelawolf as Johnny.
The Canadian rock band Nickelback recorded a cover in 2020 with Dave Martone. This version uses electric guitars instead of fiddles, tuned down a whole step, and contains the original lyrics with slight changes.
A metal version of the song was recorded by Leo Moracchioli for his YouTube channel, Frog Leap Studios. The video was publicly released on July 17, 2020.
A cover of the song titled "Devil Comes Back to Georgia" was done by Johnny Cash singing updated lyrics with violin performed by Mark O'Connor in 1993.
In 1996, the indie rock band Mono Puff released their studio album Unsupervised, which spawned a single "The Devil Went Down to Newport".
The Zac Brown Band perform the song regularly in concert, and included a version on their 2009 EP Live from Bonnaroo
Adrenaline Mob released a heavy metal cover in their 2015 album "Dearly Departed".

Chart performance
The original version of the song spent fourteen weeks on the Hot Country Singles charts in 1979, peaking at number 1 and holding the position for one week. It spent two weeks at a peak of number 3 on the Billboard Hot 100.  The single was certified Platinum by the RIAA on December 20, 1989, for sales of over two million copies in the United States. In 2003, the song was ranked at #69 on CMT's 100 Greatest Songs of Country Music, and #5 on CMT's 20 Greatest Southern Rock Songs in 2006. Since it became available as a download in the digital era, it has also sold 2.49 million digital copies in the US as of November 2019. In June 1998, Epic Records re-released the song to country radio, but accidentally sent out the version in which the line "son of a bitch" was uncensored. This error was quickly corrected, and the song re-entered the country charts at number 62 for the chart dated June 20, 1998. It spent seven weeks on the chart and peaked at number 60.

Certifications
Sequel
In 1993, a sequel to the song, "The Devil Comes Back to Georgia", was released by master violinist Mark O'Connor on his album Heroes. The song featured Daniels on fiddle, with Johnny Cash as the narrator, Marty Stuart as Johnny, and Travis Tritt as the devil. The song peaked at #54 on Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart in 1994.
In the sequel, the devil, still furious ten years after being beaten, decides to take up Johnny's challenge to "c'mon back if y'ever wanna try again". Johnny is now grown with a wife and infant son, and the devil believes that Johnny's sinful pride will be his undoing, so he takes back the golden fiddle, forcing Johnny to practice with his old fiddle before their rematch – the same one he played when he defeated the devil. 
Though the song reiterates Johnny's bold claim that he is "the best that's ever been", the lyrics do not reveal who won the rematch. But in the video, the devil is shown defeated by Johnny again.

See also
"Cross Road Blues"
Faust
"The Devil and Daniel Webster"
"The Devil and Tom Walker"
"The Devil's Dream"
Passage 3:
The Littlest Hobo
The Littlest Hobo is a Canadian television series (French title: Le Vagabond) based upon a 1958 well-known film of the same name directed by Charles R. Rondeau. The series first aired from 1963 to 1965 in syndication, and was revived for a popular second run on CTV, spanning six seasons, from October 11, 1979, to March 7, 1985. The concept of the show was that of "an ownerless dog".
All three productions revolved around an extremely intelligent stray German Shepherd, the titular Hobo, who wanders from town to town, helping people in need (all portrayed by actors in celebrity guest appearance roles). Despite the attempts of the many people whom he helped to adopt him, he heads off by himself at the end of each episode.
Referred to as “Gulliver” in a single episode, the dog is often referred to by the name Hobo or by the names given by temporary human companions. His origins, motivation, and ultimate destination are never explained on screen.

1963–1965 series
The German Shepherd dogs featured in both 1960s and 1980s series were owned and trained by Charles (Chuck) P. Eisenmann. The primary star was named London, but several of London's relatives, including Toro, Litlon, and Thorn, also played scenes as the Hobo. Eisenmann used his own training methods to work with his dogs which involved educating them to think and understand very specific directions, to recognize colours, and to understand English, German, and French. He promoted his education method by touring with his dogs to offer live demonstrations,  appearing on TV and radio shows and by writing books. Eisenmann recounts many stories from the filming of the series in his 1968 dog training book Stop! Sit! and Think. Other books he wrote include The Better Dog: The Educated Dog which contains updated training material and A Dog’s Day in Court which offers a dog's point of view towards training methods.
The dogs have "reverse mask" markings. After purchasing London, Eisenmann began to breed his own dogs, mostly studding out his males, even though he owned some females that he bred to as well. He bred particularly for the reverse mask, that is commonly seen on all of his dogs, and is unpopular with breeders of the German Shepherd, as it is not in the breed standard.
Shiloh Shepherd dogs are stated to trace their heritage back to London's relatives and are inspired by the intelligence Eisenmann's dogs were reputed to have.Some notable Hollywood guest stars included Pat Harrington Jr., Nita Talbot, Ellen Corby, Henry Gibson, and Keenan Wynn (the last two of which would also guest-star in the 1979–1985 revival series).

1979–1985 series
In 1979 CTV revived the series. The New Littlest Hobo (as it was sometimes called), which ran for six seasons, was shot on videotape rather than film. It has since been syndicated in many countries including the US and UK. In the course of its run, a mixture of well-known Canadian and Hollywood guest stars appeared such as Al Waxman, Carol Lynley, John Ireland, Megan Follows, Rex Hagon, Alan Hale Jr., Jack Gilford, August Schellenberg, DeForest Kelley, Ray Walston, Morey Amsterdam, Jeff Wincott, Michael Ironside, Patrick Macnee, Abe Vigoda, Saul Rubinek, John Vernon, Keenan Wynn (who also previously appeared in the original 1963–1965 series), Chris Makepeace, Karen Kain, Vic Morrow, Andrew Prine, Lynda Day George, Nerene Virgin, Tedde Moore, Sammy Snyders, Henry Gibson (who also previously appeared in the original 1963–1965 series), John Carradine, Leslie Nielsen, Anne Francis, and Jayne Eastwood. Mike Myers appears as Tommy in episode 10 "Boy on Wheels".
Charles (Chuck) P. Eisenmann appeared as a dog trainer named Chuck in the first-season episode "Stand In" and as dog kennel operator named Mr. Charles in part one of the episode "Voyageurs" from the sixth season.
In a nod to the original series, the dog that appeared in this series was also credited as "London".

Plot
Plots ranged from the simple "dog-helps-person" stories to secret agent-type adventures.
In season 5's two-part episode "The Genesis Tapes" a scientist and a reporter theorized that Hobo was a type of superior canine. The reporter theorized that there was one dog and the scientist theorized that there were up to one hundred such dogs. The two-part episode had the scientist and reporter trying to capture Hobo to study him, with the reporter wanting a story and the scientist wanting to claim to be the first to discover the meta-canine as he put it. Both episodes feature flashback footage from the first five seasons of the series, with the first episode being the only episode of the revival series to include footage from the original 1960s series. At the end of the episode, Hobo found the evidence the reporter and scientist had collected and destroyed it, implying that Hobo did not want any evidence of his origins or nature becoming public.
Trainer Chuck Eisenmann used several dogs to play the role of "London" as he had selected dogs entirely based on their appearance. He determined which dogs to use for the scenes by making use of their abilities such as if one dog did not mind carrying objects or if one were small enough to safely jump through a car window and manoeuvre through the seats. In Eisenmann's book, A Dog's Day in Court, one of the dogs used in the 1970s series was London's grandson, who was also known as London.
A 2005 episode of the CTV sitcom Corner Gas, entitled "The Littlest Yarbo", pays tribute to the series by having a character (Hank Yarbo) convinced that a stray dog visiting the town is Hobo. The episode ends with a reprise of Terry Bush's "Maybe Tomorrow" theme song.

Theme music
The show's theme, "Maybe Tomorrow", was written by Terry Bush and John Crossen.  The original was sung by Terry Bush. In 2005, Bush commercially released the song on his debut album, entitled Maybe Tomorrow. The song was later used in a 2011 Dulux paint advertisement.  Additionally, in 2017, the song was in a Canada 150-themed Co-Op stores advertisement. A cover of the song, performed by Nightingale Cummings, was featured in season ten of the television show Trailer Park Boys.

Second series episodes
Telecast and home media
1963–1965 series
Following the 1958 film, the 1960s original TV series was aired in syndication around the world, including the UK on ITV, Australia on the Nine Network between 1964 and 1967 and New Zealand on TV One. Although the series was originally broadcast in black and white, it was in fact produced in colour. The VCI Entertainment DVD release of the series featured the colour versions of the episodes, except for the opening and closing credits which have only survived in black and white. Sixty-one episodes were broadcast over two seasons.
Storer Programs Incorporated, a unit of the now-defunct Storer Broadcasting, distributed the series to U.S. television stations during its 1960s run.
VCI Entertainment has released 12 episodes from the original series to DVD. The release features the colour versions of the first 3 episodes, except for the opening and closing sequences which have only survived in monochrome. The last 9 episodes were released in black and white.

1979–1985 series
The series aired on CTV on Thursday nights at 7:30 p.m. Repeats continued on CTV, CTV 2, and other national networks up until 2012, when CTV replaced it with a block of music videos from Juicebox. However, CTV2 recently resumed reruns of the 80's incarnation. In the UK, the series premiered on the BBC on April 8, 1982, but only the first three seasons were shown and repeated until 1989. From April 1991 ITV picked up the series and each of the local companies played out the full series until late 1994.
Mediumrare Entertainment have only released the first two seasons of The Littlest Hobo on DVD. The Season One DVD, featured the theme tune "Maybe Tomorrow" on DVD in Region 2 & 4 on April 26, 2010.
In 2017, episodes from the series began to be uploaded onto Encore+, a YouTube channel run by the Canada Media Fund and Google Canada. The episodes have since been removed from the channel. As of 2023, the entire series is available on CTV's website through the CTV Throwback lineup, and reruns returns on Bell Media's channels: CTV, CTV 2, and Animal Planet.
Passage 4:
Same Old Lang Syne
"Same Old Lang Syne" is a song written and recorded by Dan Fogelberg and released as a single in 1980. It was included on his 1981 album The Innocent Age. The song is an autobiographical narrative ballad told in the first person and tells the story of two long-ago romantic interests meeting by chance in a grocery store on Christmas Eve.  The song peaked at No. 9 on the Billboard Hot 100 and is now frequently played during the holiday season and alongside traditional Christmas songs.

Content
On a snowy Christmas Eve, the narrator is reunited with an old flame at a grocery store. She does not recognize him at first, but when she does, she so hurriedly embraces him that she drops her purse, breaking the tension and letting them laugh. They decide to talk over a drink but there are no bars open, so they bring a six-pack of beer from a liquor store to her car.The pair toast innocence, and push through their initial awkwardness to discuss their lives. The lover married an architect, for security instead of love. The narrator, a musician, loves performing for audiences, but hates traveling.After consuming all of the beer, they exchange their goodbyes; the woman kisses him as he gets out of the car, and drives away. He flashes back to school and relives the pain of their breakup; as he walks home, the falling snow turns into rain.
The melody is based on the 1812 Overture by Tchaikovsky and ends with "Auld Lang Syne" as a soprano saxophone solo by Michael Brecker.

Origins
As Fogelberg said on his official website, the song was autobiographical. He was visiting his parents for Christmas at the family home in Peoria, Illinois, in 1975 when he ran into an old girlfriend from Woodruff High School, the former Jill Anderson at the "Convenient Food Mart" (now a convenience store) on Abington Street Hill. Fogelberg stated in interviews that he did not recall precisely whether the chance meeting with his ex-girlfriend was in 1975 or 1976, though he leaned toward 1975; this was later confirmed. 
In 2006, Fogelberg received a letter from a young fan named Grace Ferguson who asked him about the meaning of the song's final lyric, "And as I turned to make my way back home / The snow turned into rain". The lyric has often been interpreted metaphorically as the world feeling warmer after he had talked with his ex-girlfriend. In reply, Fogelberg acknowledged this metaphor as "wonderful", although, as he wrote, "as I drove home, the snow actually DID turn from snow into rain!".After Fogelberg's death from prostate cancer in 2007, the woman in the song, Jill Anderson Greulich, came forward with her story. Greulich told of how she and Fogelberg dated in high school. As she explained to the Peoria Journal Star in an article dated December 22, 2007, the pair knew each other in Peoria, Illinois as part of the Woodruff High School class of 1969. After graduation, each attended different colleges. Following college, Greulich married and moved to Chicago, while Fogelberg moved to Colorado to pursue a music career. While back in Peoria visiting their respective families for Christmas in 1975, Fogelberg and Greulich ran into each other on Christmas Eve at a convenience store located at 1302 East Frye Avenue in the Abington Hill district. Greulich confirmed that they bought a six-pack of beer and drank it in her car for two hours while they talked. Five years later, after the song was released, Greulich heard the song on the radio for the first time while driving to work, but kept quiet about it, as Fogelberg had not disclosed her identity. She stated that her reason for remaining quiet about her involvement in the song's narrative was that coming forward might have disrupted Fogelberg's marriage.Greulich noted that Fogelberg had taken artistic license with two details of the story: her eyes are green, not blue, and her husband was a physical education teacher, not an architect. In regard to the line, "She would have liked to say she loved the man, but she didn't like to lie," Greulich will not talk about it, but by the time of the song's release in 1980, she and her husband had divorced.
In 2008, the City of Peoria gave Abington Street Hill the honorary designation of "Fogelberg Parkway".

Association with Christmas
"Same Old Lang Syne" is frequently played on radio stations during the North American holiday season. The song's opening lyrics reveal that the narrative takes place on a snowy Christmas Eve and they end with a second acknowledgment of snow. Since the song's release, these references and the musical quote of "Auld Lang Syne", a song traditionally sung on New Year's Eve, have increased the song's popularity during the month of December. The song debuted on the Hot 100's top 40, at #37, on 27 December 1980, between Christmas and New Year's Eve.

Cover versions
The boy band Backstreet Boys covered the song on their album A Very Backstreet Christmas, released on October 14, 2022. Their version omits the final verse and instead ends with the chorus to "Auld Lang Syne".

Musicians
Dan Fogelberg: Piano, bass, electric piano, lead and background vocals
Glen Spreen: orchestral arrangements
Russ Kunkel: Drums
Michael Brecker: Soprano saxophone

Chart performance
Passage 5:
Love Is a Drug (Eskimo Joe song)
"Love Is a Drug" is a song by Australian rock band Eskimo Joe. It was released in June 2011 as the second single from their fifth studio album titled Ghosts of the Past. The song peaked at number 38 on the ARIA Singles Chart.
At the ARIA Music Awards of 2011, the song was nominated for ARIA Award for Best Video.
At the APRA Music Awards of 2012, the song was nominated for Rock Work of the Year.

Charts
Release history
Passage 6:
Give Up the Ghost (album)
Give Up the Ghost is the third studio album by American singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, released on October 6, 2009, through Columbia Records. The album was produced by Grammy Award winner Rick Rubin and contains a collaboration with Elton John titled "Caroline". Recorded at Sunset Sound in Los Angeles, the album also features Chad Smith, Amy Ray and Benmont Tench."Dreams", the first single from the album, was released on Carlile's website on August 14, and was available for download on August 18.

Track listing
All songs written by Carlile, unless noted otherwise.

"Looking Out" – 4:18
"Dying Day" (Tim Hanseroth) – 3:33
"Pride and Joy" – 4:20
"Dreams" (Carlile, Phil Hanseroth, Tim Hanseroth) – 3:31
"That Year" – 3:35
"Caroline" (Carlile, Phil Hanseroth, Tim Hanseroth) – 3:36
"Before It Breaks" (Carlile, Phil Hanseroth, Tim Hanseroth) – 3:57
"I Will" – 4:09
"If There Was No You" (Carlile, Phil Hanseroth) – 2:39
"Touching the Ground" (Tim Hanseroth) – 3:17
"Oh Dear" (Carlile, Phil Hanseroth) – 2:50

Personnel
Brandi Carlile – banjo, acoustic guitar, electric guitar, piano, lead vocals, background vocals
Jesse Carmichael – mellotron
Lenny Castro – percussion
Gibb Droll – dobro, slide guitar
Phil Hanseroth – bass guitar, upright bass, electric guitar, percussion, ukulele, background vocals, Wurlitzer
Tim Hanseroth – drums, electric guitar, percussion, background vocals
Jacob Hoffman – piano
Victor Indrizzo – drums, percussion
Elton John – piano, background vocals
Paul Buckmaster – arrangements
Josh Neumann – cello
Jason Lader – synthesizer
Amy Ray – background vocals
Chad Smith – drums, percussion
Benmont Tench – organ, piano

Charts
Awards
In 2010, Brandi Carlile was nominated for a GLAAD Media Award for "Outstanding Music Artist" for the album Give Up the Ghost during the 21st GLAAD Media Awards.
Passage 7:
Colder Weather
"Colder Weather" is a song by American country music group Zac Brown Band. Lead singer Zac Brown co-wrote the song with Coy Bowles (the band's keyboardist and guitarist), Wyatt Durrette and Levi Lowrey. It is the band's seventh single release overall, and the second single from their 2010 album You Get What You Give.

Content
The lyric is about a trucker who is on the road, and separated from his lover due to the weather. Co-writer Wyatt Durrette told The Boot:

There was a girl I was seeing, who lived in Kansas City. We really liked each other, but geography and timing just wasn't working for us. She was getting pretty frustrated with the whole thing and wanted me to slow down, as far as traveling so much and all those things. I wasn't willing to do that because we were just getting started, and I'm chasing my dreams.
"Colder Weather" is in the key of E-flat major, with the guitars set to E♭ tuning. In this song, Brown's vocals range from B♭2 to A♭4.

Critical reception
The song has received primarily positive reviews from critics. Jessica Phillips of Country Weekly, in her review of the album, called it "lyrically profound," and Eric R. Danton of the Hartford Courant said that it was the "sorrowful, solitary kind of song with an old-school country-ballad feel made for crisp nights in the high country." Giving it a "thumbs up," Karlie Justus of Engine 145 called it "loneliness and longing set to music", also praising the production and lyrics. She compared the song's style to Merle Haggard. Jonathan Keefe of Slant Magazine was less favorable, calling the song "somewhat strident and inorganic."

Music video
The music video was directed by Darren Doane and premiered in February 2011. Australian actor Liam Hemsworth appeared in the video portraying the male character who temporarily leaves his girlfriend during the winter.  Tori McPetrie portrays his girlfriend.

Charts and certifications
Passage 8:
Godsmack
Godsmack is an American rock band from Lawrence, Massachusetts, formed in 1995. The band is composed of lead singer and rhythm guitarist Sully Erna, bassist Robbie Merrill, lead guitarist Tony Rombola and drummer Shannon Larkin. Since its formation, Godsmack has released eight studio albums, one EP (The Other Side), four DVDs, one compilation album (Good Times, Bad Times... Ten Years of Godsmack), and one live album (Live & Inspired).
The band has released three consecutive number-one albums (Faceless, IV and The Oracle) on the Billboard 200. The band also has 25 top ten rock radio hits, including 18 songs in the top five. The band's seventh album, When Legends Rise was released on April 27, 2018.
Since its inception, Godsmack has toured with Ozzfest on more than one occasion and has toured with many other large tours and festivals, including supporting its albums with its own arena tours. In honor of the band's success and the release of their sixth studio album, 1000hp, Mayor Marty Walsh declared August 6 as "Godsmack Day" in the city of Boston.

History
Formation and All Wound Up... (1995–1997)
In February 1995, Sully Erna decided to start a new band as the lead singer after playing the drums for more than 23 years, including more than two years in the now-defunct band Strip Mind. His new band, The Scam, formed with Erna on vocals, Robbie Merrill on bass, local guitarist and friend Lee Richards on guitar, and Tommy Stewart on drums. The Scam quickly changed its name to Godsmack, after recording one demo. The newly formed band started playing small bars in their hometown of Boston. Locally popular songs such as "Keep Away" and "Whatever" soon brought them to the top of the hit charts in the Boston/New England area.Many people think the band's name stemmed from an Alice in Chains song, but according to Erna, the band's name came from a small and personal incident. "I was making fun of [our drummer at the time] who had a cold sore on his lip and the next day I had one myself and somebody said, 'It's a god smack.' The name stuck. We were aware of the Alice In Chains song but didn't really think much about it." In 1996, Tony Rombola joined as the guitarist after Richards left upon learning he had a six-year-old child and Stewart left due to personal differences. In the same year, the band entered New Alliance Studio in Boston to record its debut album, All Wound Up.... The CD was recorded in just three days for $2,600 and was self-released in February 1997 through the band's own record label, E. K. Records Company. In May 1997, Joe D'Arco joined to replace Stewart on drums.Eventually, Godsmack's CD landed in the hands of Rocko, the night-time DJ for Boston radio station WAAF (FM). The radio station put "Keep Away" into heavy rotation and the song rose to the number one spot at the station very quickly. Newbury Comics, a New England record store chain, agreed to sell the CD on consignment. Shortly after the success of "Keep Away", Godsmack went back into the studio and recorded a single titled "Whatever", which became the new local favorite on WAAF (FM). In an interview Sully Erna stated, "We had been selling maybe 50 copies a month at the time WAAF picked up the album. All of a sudden we started moving over a thousand records a week. (...) I was doing all this from my bedroom. After years of grinding away, things finally started taking off." In April 1998, D'Arco was dismissed from the band. He was replaced by former drummer Tommy Stewart, who returned after expressing a desire to be in the band again.

Godsmack (1998–1999)
In June 1998, Universal/Republic Records signed the band to their label.  The band's first album All Wound Up... was slightly edited to remove unlicensed samples, fully re-mastered and given a new artwork and layout; the finished self-titled album Godsmack was released to the public six weeks later on August 25, 1998. This led to the band's first headlining tour, "The Godsmack Tour" with Jim Rose Circus as the opening act. After the album's release the band went on the road playing club shows as well as playing at Ozzfest and Woodstock '99. This was followed by a tour in Europe supporting Black Sabbath. Roxanne Blanford from Allmusic gave the album three out of five stars, stating, "Godsmack confidently brought metal into the technological age". The album entered the Billboard 200 at number twenty-two, and was certified 4× platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America in 2001 after being initially certified gold in 1999.The album sold well despite being initially pulled from the shelves in some stores due to concerns over some of its lyrical content. The band and its record label later added a Parental Advisory sticker to the album, and some stores ordered amended copies of the album. Erna commented in Rolling Stone magazine stating, "Our record has been in the marketplace for more than a year now without a parental advisory sticker and this is the one and only complaint ... Stickers and lyrics are by nature subjective ... We have decided to put a sticker on the record." This controversy did not appear to adversely affect album sales but, according to Erna, helped; "It's almost taunting kids to go out and get the record to see what we're saying on it." The album also had four successful singles which were "Whatever", "Keep Away", "Voodoo" and "Bad Religion".

Awake (2000–2001)
In 2000, Godsmack returned to the studio after the multi-platinum success of Godsmack to start recording Awake. The album was released on October 31, 2000. The album debuted at number five on the Billboard 200, and has been certified 2× platinum by the RIAA. "Vampires", a song on the album, also earned the band a Grammy nomination for Best Rock Instrumental Performance in 2002. With the release of Awake, Godsmack toured Europe supporting Limp Bizkit. Erna said at the time, "We've been touring nonstop since August 1998, So most of Awake was written on tour while we were ping-ponging between America and Europe, building up the band. "Ozzfest" was actually the only big tour where we rode under someone else's wings; we did a lot of work on our own." The band played Ozzfest in 2000 again as they had in 1999. On July 19, 2001, Godsmack released their first live DVD titled Live. The DVD has since been certified Gold by the RIAA for selling 50,000 copies in the United States.Two of the songs on the album were used in United States Navy commercials ("Sick of Life" and "Awake") as background music. Erna stated, "Someone in the military is a fan, and they asked if they could use the music, and we accepted". However, Erna insisted in an interview that Godsmack does not support any war.

The Scorpion King, Faceless and The Other Side (2002–2004)
In 2002, Erna was asked to write and perform a song for the soundtrack to The Scorpion King. The song Godsmack wrote and performed was titled "I Stand Alone" and the song became the number 1 single at Rock Radio and the most played Active Rock song in 2002 for 14 weeks straight. It was also used in the game Prince of Persia: Warrior Within.With Shannon Larkin (ex Ugly Kid Joe, Souls at Zero, Wrathchild America, MF Pitbulls) replacing Tommy Stewart, who left due to personal differences for the second time, Godsmack went back into the studio later that year to record a new album that was released in 2003. Faceless debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, selling 269,000 copies in its first week, and the album would go on to sell over one million copies in the United States. Faceless also debuted at number nine on the Top Canadian Albums and at number one on the Top Internet Albums and remained at that position for two weeks. A massive Tour of America and Europe supporting Metallica followed.
The lead single "Straight Out of Line" received a Grammy Award nomination for "Best Hard Rock Performance". The award went to Evanescence's single "Bring Me to Life". The album got its name after a swimming-pool incident. However, in a later interview Merrill stated otherwise, making it unclear of how the album's title came to be, "It came from the band's feeling that, despite our radio and sales success, we still flew a bit under the radar".On March 16, 2004 The Other Side, an acoustic EP, was released. The album debuted at number five on the Billboard 200, a relatively high position for an acoustic EP. It included several previously released songs re-recorded as acoustic versions, as well as three new acoustic tracks. One new song, "Touché", featured Godsmack's first guitar player, Lee Richards, as well as John Kosco, who were at that time in the now defunct band Dropbox, The other two new acoustic tracks were "Running Blind" and "Voices". The song "Asleep" is actually an acoustic version of "Awake" from the band's second album Awake. Godsmack shifted from its "heavy" sound to a more mellow acoustic sound on this EP in the same manner Alice in Chains did in the Sap and Jar of Flies EPs, one of many similarities to Alice in Chains for which the band has been criticized.In 2004, Godsmack opened for Metallica's "Madly in Anger with the World tour", and headlined the tour along with Dropbox. Afterwards, in autumn 2004, the band played several acoustic shows to promote The Other Side, while at the same time continuing to open for Metallica.

IV and Ten Years of Godsmack (2005–2007)
Throughout 2005, The band was in the studio recording and writing material for a new album. On April 25, 2006, Godsmack released its fourth studio album simply titled IV, followed by a tour that would continue until August 2007, titled "The IV tour". The album was produced by Erna and engineered by the well known producer and engineer Andy Johns, known for engineering Led Zeppelin's Led Zeppelin IV. The first single from the album, "Speak" was released on February 14, 2006. The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, selling 211,000 copies in its first week.IV has since been certified gold. The band had written over forty songs for the album, but the final track listing had eleven tracks, Larkin commented, "it's Sully's band and his vision.[...]When it comes time to pick the songs it's all Sully". The album's minimalist name "IV" derives not only from its being the band's fourth studio album, but also from a running piece of backstage humor, as related by Larkin and Erna in an interview.To celebrate ten years as a band, Godsmack released a greatest hits album entitled Good Times, Bad Times... Ten Years of Godsmack on December 4, 2007. The album debuted at number thirty-five on the Billboard 200, selling 40,000 copies in the first week of release. It includes a cover of the Led Zeppelin song "Good Times Bad Times", as well as a DVD of Godsmack's acoustic performance in Las Vegas at House of Blues. The album was originally intended to be a boxed set, but the band scrapped the plans so they could release a best of album. Godsmack will follow the release of the album with an acoustic tour. Despite rumors of the band going on hiatus as a result of releasing a greatest hits album, Erna was quoted as saying, "we're not going away, we are just gonna take a break and enjoy our 10th year anniversary and kind of recharge our batteries. And then Godsmack will be back, and we will come back bigger and badder than ever."

The Oracle and break (2008–2013)
In November 2008, Larkin announced that the band would be reforming and recording a new album. The following summer, the band toured as support to Mötley Crüe's Crüe Fest 2 tour and released a non-album single, "Whiskey Hangover". After the tour, Godsmack started production for their new album. The album, titled The Oracle was released on May 4, 2010. Arriving to popular reception, The Oracle was Godsmack's third straight full-length studio album to debut at No. 1 with 117,000 sold in the first week of release. Erna had this to say about the early sound album, "It's gonna be really heavy. I mean, it's very aggressive. I'm not really sure; it's very premature right now. Right now we just finished one track for the Crüe Fest this Summer. But as far as the whole record goes, I think it's going to be a lot more in your face. I don't think there's going to be any 'Voodoo's or 'Serenity's on this one. We decided to go balls out!".Godsmack headlined the fourth annual Mayhem Festival alongside Disturbed. The band entered the studio in January 2012 to mix a live album plus record several covers for an upcoming release. They then went on tour in the spring with Staind. In February 2012, Godsmack finished an EP of cover songs. Godsmack released their new live album Live & Inspired on May 15, 2012. The set included a bonus EP of cover tracks. In December of the same year, Sully said in an interview that Godsmack would take a break during 2013, stating "We're going to take some time away now because we just ran for the last two years." A month after, Erna announced a short solo tour through America.

1000hp (2014–2016)
In February 2014, Erna tweeted that the band had made progress in the songwriting process for its next studio album, tentatively scheduled for a late 2014 release. He also mentioned that the band finished 11 songs for the new record in two weeks. In April, the band announced that they had recorded 15 songs, ten of which would make the final cut. In May, Erna announced that the album would be titled 1000hp (1000 Horsepower). The album's title track was released as a single the following month. The album was released on August 5, 2014, and sold around 58,000 copies in the United States in its first week of release to land at position No. 3 on The Billboard 200 chart. Since release the album has spawned the singles Something Different and What's Next. The band have unified a campaign to aid military veterans with their latest single What's Next.Godsmack also headlined the 2014 Uproar Festival. They were announced on August 20, 2014, to be part of the Soundwave Festival in Australia. In July 2015, the band revealed dates for an upcoming North American fall headline tour. The run included dates with Sevendust. Also in August 2015 Godsmack announced a new leg of North American dates that would keep the band busy through mid-November.On October 14, 2015, Godsmack released a digital single called "Inside Yourself" available for a limited free download. The song was released on iTunes on November 20, 2015.On September 9, 2016, Erna confirmed that the band had officially left Universal/Republic, and signed a deal with BMG.

When Legends Rise (2017–2020)
The band began work on a seventh studio album in 2017. The album, When Legends Rise, was released on April 27, 2018. The album's first single, "Bulletproof", was released ahead of the album on February 28, 2018. The band toured across North America from May through October 2018. They played at several festivals before embarking on a co-headlining summer tour with Shinedown. The band then toured Europe in October and November 2018 in support of their new album. However, On October 17, 2018, it was announced that the band postponed their fall 2018 Europe tour, following death of Tony Rombola's son and plan to reschedule in early 2019.On July 25, 2019, the song "Under Your Scars" hit number 1 for two weeks for the first time on the Billboard Mainstream Rock Songs chart.On April 8, 2020, the band released a music video for the song "Unforgettable". 400 aspiring musicians from middle school students across New England to take part in the video. The video, directed by Noah Berlow, again sent the song to the top of the charts for five weeks, setting a new record most constitutive at number 1 in its category.

Lighting Up the Sky (2021–present)
News of a follow-up to the album began circulating as early as August 2019 when frontman Sully Erna revealed in an interview with Canada's iHeartRadio that the band has been preparing to begin the songwriting process for the album.It was later revealed that Godsmack would be working on two new releases for 2021: an acoustic EP and a full length album. That plan has since been scrapped with Sully admitting that the band was being "a little bit more ambitious" at the time.With just one album to focus on, Godsmack drummer Shannon Larkin said on "The Metal Teddy Bear Experience" podcast that the band intended for the album to be released in 2022. In an April 23, 2022, interview with WJRR, frontman Sully Erna said that the band has finished recording the new album with a new single expected to hit the airwaves in mid-to-late summer and that the album could be the band's last.On September 28, 2022, the band released the single titled "Surrender". Shortly after the release of the new single, Sully Erna revealed in an interview with 93X Radio's Pablo that the title of the album would be Lighting Up the Sky and that it would indeed be the band's last record. A second single for the album "You and I" was released on November 11, 2022. The album was released on February 24, 2023.

Musical style and influences
Godsmack has been described as post-grunge, hard rock, nu metal, alternative metal, and heavy metal. The band's primary influences include Aerosmith, Alice in Chains, Black Sabbath, Led Zeppelin, Metallica, Pantera and Rush according to Erna, Larkin, and Rombola. Erna has cited Layne Staley as his primary influence.The overall sound of the band's first two albums have been compared to Alice in Chains' album Dirt. However, Godsmack has attempted to distance themselves from the Alice in Chains comparison with Erna stating in an interview with Matt Ashare, "I've just never really heard that in our music."The band's music is often compared to Alice in Chains which the band cites as an influence. Adrien Begrand of PopMatters states, "Erna perfectly mimics the late Layne Staley's low, guttural, sinister singing and snarly, metal-inspired growls" and, "The band's music is a faithful retread of Jerry Cantrell's churning, tuned-down hard rock".Erna's singing style has been stated as "the snarl of James Hetfield", and "composed of dark harmony that sounds a lot like Alice in Chains". Merrill's bass style has been described as "bulldozer bottom with occasional slap-bass reverb". Larkin's drumming is thought to "worship at the twin altars of Neil Peart and John Bonham". And Rombola's guitar playing style has been praised as "guitars that sound like percussion instruments".

Band members
Current members

Sully Erna – lead vocals, rhythm guitar, percussion (1995–present); studio drums (1996–2003)
Robbie Merrill – bass (1995–present); backing vocals  (2010–present)
Tony Rombola – lead guitar, backing vocals (1996–present)
Shannon Larkin – drums, percussion (2002–present)Former members

Lee Richards – lead guitar (1995–1996)
Joe D'Arco – drums (1997–1998)
Tommy Stewart – drums (1995–1997, 1998–2002)
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
		
			
			
		
Timeline

Discography
Studio albumsGodsmack (1998)
Awake (2000)
Faceless (2003)
IV (2006)
The Oracle (2010)
1000hp (2014)
When Legends Rise (2018)
Lighting Up the Sky (2023)

Awards and nominations
Grammy Awards
Billboard Awards
Boston Music Awards
See also
List of artists who reached number one on the U.S. Mainstream Rock chart
Passage 9:
Go Tell It on the Mountain (song)
"Go Tell It on the Mountain" is an African-American spiritual song which was likely derived from the oral tradition, but was originally published by John Wesley Work Jr., although there is some debate whether he was actually the first to write it. This spiritual  has been sung and recorded by many gospel and secular performers since considered a Christmas carol as its original lyrics celebrate the Nativity of Jesus:

Go tell it on the mountain, over the hills and everywhere;go tell it on the mountain, that Jesus Christ is born.
An alternate final line omits the reference to the birth of Christ, instead declaring that "Jesus Christ is Lord".Due to the oral tradition of the song, "Go Tell It on the Mountain" has also been used as a Easter song, with the refrain taking the variant of:

Go, tell it on the mountain,
Over the hills and everywhere;
Go, tell it on the mountain 

That Jesus lives again

Publication history
The earliest known publication of the song is attributed to John Wesley Work, Jr. (1871-1925) who published the song in the New Jubilee Songs as Sung by the Fisk Jubilee Singers (1901). Work grew up in Nashville where he garnered a love for music from his father who was a choir director.  He earned his Master’s in Latin and went on to teach ancient Latin and Greek. However, his first love continued to be music, and he became the first African-American collector of Negro spirituals. Most African-American spirituals originated in oral tradition, but Work, through his extensive research, was able to compile many songs into the “New Jubilee Songs”. It was not until the second version he published that “Go Tell it On the Mountain” was included.   While many books and websites attribute the New Jubilee Songs as Sung by the Fisk Jubilee Singers to John Wesley Work, Jr. in 1901, some sources argue the origins lie with Frederick Jerome Work in 1902.

Biblical references
"Go Tell It on the Mountain" references the Annunciation to the Shepherds described in the Gospel of Luke, hence the alternate title of "While shepherds kept their watching". The Nativity is also referenced in the final verse of the song:

Down in a lowly manger, 
the humble Christ was born,
and God sent us salvation,
that blessed Christmas morn.

Verses: Luke 2:8-20 and Matthew 28:19

Recording artists
In 1963, the musical team Peter, Paul and Mary, along with their musical director Milt Okun, adapted and rewrote "Go Tell It on the Mountain" as "Tell It on the Mountain", their lyrics referring specifically to Exodus and using the phrase "Let my people go", but referring implicitly to the civil rights struggle of the early 1960s. This version became a moderately successful single for them (US No. 33 pop, 1964).  Cash Box described it as "a rhythmic, updating of the folk oldie with a plaintive message-song motif."According to religious studies professor and civil rights historian Charles Marsh, it was African-American civil rights leader Fannie Lou Hamer who combined this song with the spiritual "Go Down Moses", taking the last line of the chorus, "let my people go" and substituting it in the chorus of "Go Tell It on the Mountain". Marsh does not document this claim, but notes that Hamer was highly active in civil rights work beginning in the 1950s, and that the use of the Exodus story and the singing of spirituals played a central role in her activities.
Little Big Town's 2006 non-album single version reached No. 35 on the Hot Country Songs chart.Popular African- American Contemporary Christian music band Maverick City Music recorded and published their own version of “Go Tell it On the Mountain” in 2021.

See also
List of Christmas carols
Passage 10:
Je veux donner ma voix
For the Eurovision Song Contest 1999, held in Jerusalem, France entered "Je veux donner ma voix" to compete, performed by Nayah. Television channel France 2 was originally in charge of the French participation; however, it was later changed to France 3 due to the broadcast of the French Rugby League Championship which conflicted with the date for the final. France 3 opted to choose their entry via public selection, marking the first time since 1987 France held a national final to select their entry.

Before Eurovision
Eurovision 1999: la sélection
Eurovision 1999: la sélection was the national final organised by France 3 to select France's entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 1999. The competition took place on 2 March 1999 at the L'Olympia in Paris and hosted by Julien Lepers and Karen Cheryl. The show was broadcast on France 3.

Competing entries
From 600 submissions originally received by France 2, a two-member selection committee reviewed the received submissions and selected twelve entries to compete in the national final. The selection committee consisted of Monique Le Marcis (former RTL Head of Musical Programming) and Catherine Régnier (M6 music programmer).

Final
The final took place on 2 March 1999. Twelve entries competed and the winner, "Je veux donner ma voix" performed by Nayah, was selected by the combination of public televoting (50%) and a jury panel (50%). The jury panel consisted of Gilbert Bécaud, Marie Myriam, Jocelyne Béroard, Lââm, Sandy Valentino, Richard Cocciante, Jean-Pierre Bouryayre, Laurent Petitguillaume, Jean-Michel Boris and Jean Réveillon, with each member assigning scores to each entry ranging from 1 (lowest) to 10 (highest). The rankings of each half were used to calculate the result; hence, the song with the lowest total won. There was a tie for first place between Ginie Line and Nayah; however, Nayah won as she received the most votes from the public.

At Eurovision
Nayah performed 10th in the running order of the contest, following Denmark and preceding the Netherlands. At the close of the voting she received 14 points, placing 19th of 23.The contest was broadcast live on France 3, and on a 3 hour and 5 minute delay on TV5Monde, with commentary provided by Julien Lepers. The France 3 broadcast reached 4.2 million viewers within France, representing a 27.9% market share.

Voting
Passage 11:
The Story (song)
Story or stories may refer to:

Common uses
Story, a narrative (an account of imaginary or real people and events)
Short story, a piece of prose fiction that typically can be read in one sitting
Story (American English), or storey (British English), a floor or level of a building
News story, an event or topic reported by a news organization

Social media
Story (social media), a message, image or video, often ephemeral
Facebook Stories, short user-generated photo or video collections that can be uploaded to the user's Facebook
Instagram Stories, a feature in Instagram that let the user post vertical images that will disappear in 24 hours
Snapchat Stories, a feature in Snapchat which allows users to compile snaps into chronological storylines, accessible to all of their friends

Film, television and radio
Story Television, an American digital broadcast television network
Story TV, a South Korean television drama production company
Story (TV programme), a 2015–2016 New Zealand television programme
Story, one of the main characters in the 2006 film Lady in the Water
The Story (film documentary short), a 2000 short film by John Little
The Story with Dick Gordon, a radio interview program that debuted in 2006
"Stories", an episode of The Good Doctor

Music
Groups
The Story (American band), a 1989–1994 folk-rock duo
The Story (British band), an English psychedelic folk duo formed in 2002
Stories (band), a 1972–1974 American rock group

Albums
Story (Amorphis album), 2000
Story (Eric Clapton album), 1991
Story: 25 Years of Hits, by Pet Shop Boys, 2009
Story, by Honeybus, 1970
Story, by NEWS, 2020
Story, by Yesung, 2019
A Story, by Yoko Ono (recorded 1974), or the title song, 1997
The Story (Brandi Carlile album) or the title song (see below), 2007
The Story (Kang Daniel album) or the title song, 2022
The Story (Runrig album) or the title song, 2016
The Story: The Very Best of Spandau Ballet, 2014
The Story, by Bizzy Bone, 2006
Stories (Addison Road album), 2010
Stories (Avicii album), 2015
Stories (The Bunny the Bear album), 2013
Stories (Gloria Gaynor album), 1980
Stories (Mayumi Iizuka album) or the title song, 2008
Stories (Milford Graves album), 2000
Stories (Randy Stonehill album), 1993
Stories (EP), by Chris Brokaw, or the title song, 2011
Stories, an EP by Aurora, 2021
Stories, by John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers, 2002
Stories, by various artists, released by Narada Productions

Songs
"Story" (Ai song), 2005
"Story" (Rina Aiuchi song), 2009
"Story", by Drake White from Spark, 2016
"Story", by Leddra Chapman from Telling Tales, 2009
"Story", by Maroon 5, a B-side of "Makes Me Wonder", 2007
"Story", by NF from Clouds (The Mixtape), 2021
"Story", by P-Square from Get Squared, 2005
"Story", by Perfume from Cosmic Explorer, 2016
"The Story" (Brandi Carlile song), 2007
"The Story" (Conan Gray song), 2020
"The Story", by 30 Seconds to Mars from A Beautiful Lie, 2005
"The Story", by Derrick Morgan
"The Story", by Jewel, representing Alaska in the American Song Contest, 2022
"The Story", by Limp Bizkit from The Unquestionable Truth (Part 1), 2005
"The Story", by M.I.A. from AIM, 2016
"The Story", by the Passions from Sanctuary, 2019 reissue
"Stories" (Boney M. song), 1990
"Stories" (Therapy? song), 1995
"Stories", by Paige O'Hara from Beauty and the Beast: The Enchanted Christmas, 1997
"Stories", by Saint Motel from Voyeur, 2012
"Stories", by Trapt from Trapt, 2002

EPs
Stories, an EP by The Beast

Places
Australia
Story Bridge, Brisbane, Queensland

United States
Story, Arkansas, an unincorporated community
Story, Indiana, an unincorporated community
Story, Nebraska, an unincorporated community
Story, Wyoming, a census-designated place
Joint Expeditionary Base Fort Story, an army base in Virginia Beach, Virginia
Story City, Iowa
Story County, Iowa

People
Story (surname)
Story Musgrave (born 1935), American doctor and astronaut
Story Tweedie-Yates (born 1983), professional American tennis player

Other uses
Story (magazine), an American literary magazine published 1931–1961 and 1989–2000
Story: Substance, Structure, Style and the Principles of Screenwriting, a 1997 screenwriting guide by Robert McKee
The Stories, by Jane Gardam, 2014
User story, a planning activity in software development
Ray-Ban Stories, smartglasses released in September 2021

See also
History (disambiguation)
Storey (disambiguation)