Passage 1:
Mehmet Çetingöz
Mehmet Çetingöz (born May 12, 1991, in Şanlıurfa, Turkey) is a Turkish wheelchair basketball player in center position. He is a 4 point player competing for Beşiktaş JK wheelchair basketball team. He is part of the Turkey men's junior national wheelchair basketball team and captain of the U23 team.Çetingöz became paralyzed at his right leg as a result of polio he contracted when he was four years of age. He began with wheelchair basketball with fourteen in a disabled sports club in Şanlıurfa.After playing eight years for Şanlıurfa Wheelchair, he was transferred in August 2013 to Beşiktaş JK, which  competes in the Turkish Wheelchair Basketball Super League.Çetingöz became champion with the national junior team at the 5th Fazza International Wheelchair Basketball Championships held on April 17–23, 2013 in Dubai and was named Top Scorer.

Awards
Individual
5th Fazza International Wheelchair Basketball Championships - "Top Scorer"

National team
5th Fazza International Wheelchair Basketball Championships -  with national junior team
Passage 2:
Mehmet Hayri Tarhan
Mehmet Hayri Tarhan (1884; Tirnovadjik (Malko Tarnovo) – December 11, 1934; Ankara) was a military officer of the Ottoman Army and a general of the Turkish Army.

See also
List of high-ranking commanders of the Turkish War of Independence

Sources
External links
 Media related to Mehmet Hayri Tarhan at Wikimedia Commons
Works by or about Mehmet Hayri Tarhan at Internet Archive
Passage 3:
Mehmet Eroğlu
Mehmet Eroğlu (born 2 October 1948) is a Turkish novelist. His most known work is Issızlığın Ortasında ("In the Midst of Solitude").

Life
He was born on 2 August 1948 in İzmir. In 1971, he graduated from the Department of Civil Engineering  at the Middle East Technical University. He then worked as a civil engineer at the Turkish General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works, the Tourism Bank and at a private company.
He shared the first award at the Milliyet Novel Contest (of the Milliyet news paper) in 1978 with Orhan Pamuk, with his novel Issızlığın Ortasında (In the Midst of Solitude). He also collected the Madaralı Novel Award in 1985 with the same work and the Orhan Kemal Novel Award in 1985 with Geç Kalmış Ölü (The Delayed Dead), which was a continuation of the previous book. His work reflects various situations of humanity by creating anti-heroes, while also not concealing his political point of view.

Works
Novels:
Issızlığın Ortasında (In the Midst of Isolation, 1984)
Geç Kalmış Ölü (The Delayed Dead, 1985)
Yarım Kalan Yürüyüş (The March Interrupted, 1986)
Adını Unutan Adam (The Man Who Forgot His Name, 1989)
Yürek Sürgünü (Exile of Heart, 1994)
Zamanın Manzarası (View of Time, 2002)
Kusma Kulübü (Vomit Club, 2004).
Passage 4:
Turhan Tezol
Turhan Tezol (9 August 1932 – 27 April 2014) was a Turkish basketball player, who competed in the 1952 Summer Olympics.
Turhan Tezol was born to Mehmet Şükrü, an immigrant from Kavala, (then Ottoman Empire), and his wife Zeliha at Istanbul on August 9, 1932. He had four brothers, Alaettin, Tayyar, Erdoğan and Ayhan, as well as two sisters İnal and Mualla (Kuşçu).Tezol began his playing career at the local team Modaspor. He enjoyed three times Turkish Basketball League championship title with his club. he left Modaspor, and moved to Izmir joining the basketball side of Altınordu. After retiring from active sports, he served as executive at the Izmir-based clubs Altay, Göztepe and Altınordu. Tezol worked also for the Turkish Basketball Federation.At the age of 19, he was called up to the Turkey juniors national team. Later, he became member of the Turkey national team, taking part at the 1952 Summer Olympic in Helsinki, Finland, and three times at FIBA EuroBasket in 1955, 1957 and 1959. He capped 71 times in total for the national team, and served also as captain.He is remembered for his capacity in dribbling technique.Turhan Tezol suffered from pancreatic cancer, and was treated a long time. He died following surgery on 27 April 2014 Izmir. He was survived by his wife Nesrin (née Gündoğdu), two sons, Erhan and Ersin, and five grandchildren.
Passage 5:
Birth certificate
A birth certificate is a vital record that documents the birth of a person. The term "birth certificate" can refer to either the original document certifying the circumstances of the birth or to a certified copy of or representation of the ensuing registration of that birth. Depending on the jurisdiction, a record of birth might or might not contain verification of the event by such as a midwife or doctor.
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 17, an integral part of the 2030 Agenda, has a target to increase the timely availability of data regarding age, gender, race, ethnicity, and other relevant characteristics which documents like a birth certificate has the capacity to provide.

History and contemporary times
The documentation of births is a practice widely held throughout human civilization. The original purpose of vital statistics was for tax purposes and for the determination of available military manpower. In England, births were initially registered with churches, who maintained registers of births. This practice continued into the 19th century. The compulsory registration of births with the United Kingdom government is a practice that originated at least as far back as 1853. The entire United States did not get a standardized system until 1902.Most countries have statutes and laws that regulate the registration of births. In all countries, it is the responsibility of the mother's physician, midwife, hospital administrator, or the parent(s) of the child to see that the birth is properly registered with the appropriate government agency.
The actual record of birth is stored with a government agency. That agency will issue certified copies or representations of the original birth record upon request, which can be used to apply for government benefits, such as passports. The certification is signed and/or sealed by the registrar or other custodian of birth records, who is commissioned by the government.
The right of every child to a name and nationality, and the responsibility of national governments to achieve this are contained in Articles 7 and 8 in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child: "The child shall be registered immediately after birth and shall have the right from birth to a name, the right to acquire a nationality..." (CRC Article 7) and "States Parties undertake to respect the right of the child to preserve his or her identity, including nationality, name and family relations..." (CRC Article 8).
...it's a small paper but it actually establishes who you are and gives access to the rights and the privileges, and the obligations, of citizenship.
Despite 191 countries ratifying the convention, the births of millions of children worldwide go unregistered. By their very nature, data concerning unregistered children are approximate. About 29% of countries do not have available or sufficient data to assess global progress toward the SDG goal of universal coverage. However, from the data that is available, UNICEF estimates that more than a quarter of children under 5 worldwide are unregistered. The lowest levels of birth registration are found in sub-Saharan Africa (43 percent). This phenomenon disproportionately impacts poor households and indigenous populations. Even in many developed countries, it contributes to difficulties in fully accessing civic rights.Birth registration opens the door to rights to children and adults which many other human beings take for granted: to prove their age; to prove their nationality; to receive healthcare; to go to school; to take exams; to be adopted; to protection from underage military service or conscription; to marry; to open a bank account; to hold a driving licence; to obtain a passport; to inherit money or property; and to vote or stand for elected office.There are many reasons why births go unregistered, including social and cultural beliefs and attitudes; alternative documents and naming ceremonies; remote areas, poor infrastructure; economic barriers; lack of office staff, equipment and training; legal and political restrictions; fear of discrimination and persecution; war, conflict and unrest or simply the fact that there is no system in place.Retrospective registration may be necessary where there is a backlog of children whose births have gone unregistered. In Senegal, the government is facilitating retrospective registration through free local court hearings and the number of unregistered children has fallen considerably as a result.
In Sierra Leone, the government gave the National Office of Births and Deaths special permission to issue birth certificates to children over seven. In Bolivia, there was a successful three-year amnesty for the free registration of young people aged between 12 and 18.Statelessness, or the lack of effective nationality, impacts the daily lives of some 11–12 million people around the world. Perhaps those who suffer most are stateless infants, children, and adolescents. Although born and raised in their parents' country of habitual residence, they lack formal recognition of their existence.

Algeria
The establishment of the first birth certificates in Algeria dates from the 1830s, during the French colonial era. Full copies are issued only by the commune of birth. However, birth certificates can be issued by any municipality or consulate on presentation of a family record book and are valid for 10 years.In 2020, the government launched an online service for requesting civil status documents.The secure birth certificate, known as 12S (in Arabic: 12خ), is an extract of birth certificate issued once in a lifetime on a special and secured paper, this document is mandatory for the issuance of the biometric ID and passport.

Australia
States and territories of Australia are responsible for the issuance of birth certificates, through agencies generally titled "Registry of Births Deaths and Marriages" or similar.Initially registering a birth is done by a hospital through a "Birth Registration Statement" or similar, signed by appropriately licensed and authorized health professionals, and provided to the state or territory registry. Home births are permitted, but a statement is required from a registered midwife, doctor or 2 other witnesses other than the parent(s). Unplanned births require in some states that the baby be taken to a hospital within 24 hours. Once registered, a separate application (sometimes it can be done along with the Birth Registration Statement) can be made for a birth certificate, generally at a cost. The person(s) named or the parent(s) can apply for a certificate at any time. Generally, there is no restriction on re-applying for a certificate at a later date, so it could be possible to legally hold multiple original copies.
The Federal government requires that births be also registered through a "Proof of Birth Declaration" similarly signed as above by a doctor or midwife. This ensures the appropriate benefits can be paid, and the child is enrolled for Medicare.The state or territory issued birth certificate is a secure A4 paper document, generally listing: Full name at birth, sex at birth, parent(s) and occupation(s), older sibling(s), address(es), date and place of birth, name of the registrar, date of registration, date of issue of certificate, a registration number, with the signature of the registrar and seal of the registry printed and/or embossed. Most states allow for stillbirths to be issued a birth certificate. Some states issue early pregnancy loss certificates (without legal significance if before 20 weeks). Depending on the state or territory, amendments on the certificate are allowed to correct an entry, add ascendant, recognize same-sex relationship, changing the sex of the holder is possible in all states and territories.The full birth certificate in Australia is an officially recognized identity document generally in the highest category. The birth certificate assists in establishing citizenship. Shorter and/or commemorative birth certificates are available; however, they are not generally acceptable for identification purposes.Birth certificates in Australia can be verified online by approved agencies through the Attorney-General's Department Document Verification Service and can be used to validate identity digitally, e.g. online.

Canada
In Canada, the issuance of birth certificates is a function of the provinces and territories. In 2008, provinces and territories started rolling out new polymer certificates to new applicants.Canadian birth certificates may be obtained from the following:

Alberta – A registry agent authorised by the Province
British Columbia – British Columbia Vital Statistics Agency
Manitoba – Manitoba Vital Statistics Agency
New Brunswick – Service New Brunswick
Newfoundland and Labrador – Service NL
Northwest Territories – Health Services Administration Office
Nova Scotia – Access Nova Scotia
Nunavut – Registrar-General of Vital Statistics
Ontario – ServiceOntario
Prince Edward Island – Vital Statistics Registry
Quebec – Director of Civil Status (Directeur de l'état civil)
Saskatchewan – eHealth Saskatchewan
Yukon – Vital Statistics, Government of Yukon

Types issued
There are three forms of birth certificates issued:

Certified true copy/photostat – contains all information available on the birth of a person.
Long-form – contains name, place and date of birth, parental information, date of issue, date of registration, registration number, certificate number, and authorised signature(s).
Short-form – as with long-form, except for parental information. Previously in card format.
Residents of Quebec born elsewhere can have their non-Quebec birth record inserted into Quebec's birth register. Quebec birth certificates issued with regard to a birth that occurred outside of Quebec are referred to as "semi-authentic" under paragraph 137 of the Civil Code of Québec, until their full authenticity is recognised by a Quebec court. Inserting one's birth record into the Quebec register is a prerequisite for anyone born outside of Quebec to apply for a legal name and/or legal gender change in the province. Semi-authentic birth certificates are issued in the long-form only.

Languages
Depending on the province, certificates are in English, French or both languages. Birth certificates from Canadian territories are in English and French, as well as Inuktitut in Nunavut (though individual data is in the Roman alphabet only, not in Inuktitut syllabics). The Northwest Territories previously issued certificates bearing Inuktitut.

DND 419 birth certificates
In 1963, the Department of National Defence started issuing birth certificates to dependents of Canadian Forces members born overseas. These certificates were never accorded legal status, but served as a convenient substitute for the original record of birth from the country of birth. In November 1979, production of these certificates ceased.Today, the DND 419 is recognised as a proof of age, but not of citizenship. At least two Canadians have had Canadian passports withheld on the basis of their DND 419 birth certificates.

China
The People's Republic of China issued its first medical birth certificate on 1 January 1996. Persons born prior to that date can obtain a birth certificate from a Chinese notary public by way of presenting their hukou and other supporting documents. The notary then proceeds to issue a notarial birth certificate based on the information contained in the said documentation. This notarial birth certificate is acceptable for immigration purposes.The fifth-generation medical birth certificate was adopted nationwide on 1 January 2014. Still, China is amongst those countries with no globally comparable data, presenting challenges to researchers who wish to assess global and regional progress towards universal birth registration.

Cuba
In Cuba, birth certificates are issued by the local civil registries.
With the passage of Extraordinary Official Gazette Number 9 of 2020, issued by the Cuban Ministry of Justice, birth certificates (as with all other vital records, excepting certificates of single status) will no longer expire after a certain amount of time.Children born to Cuban citizens abroad may have the details of their birth transcribed in a Cuban civil registry through a Cuban overseas mission. This is known as a Birth Certificate Transcript. Because of the considerable difficulty of obtaining Cuban vital records for individuals residing outside of Cuba – even where Cuban overseas missions have been delegated to provide these services – private services such as the Massachusetts-based Cuba City Hall offer retrieval services, wherein they apply for a certificate from a Cuban civil registry on behalf of an overseas individual. These services have been called overpriced.

Czech Republic
The Czech Republic maintains a registry of vital records, including births, of people, regardless of nationality, or birthplace. Every citizen of the Czech Republic will need to register their birth if born abroad, effectively granting a foreign born person two birth certificates. The Czech Republic will also register foreigners in some cases. The office that registers births is colloquially called 'matrika'.

Denmark
In Denmark, the authority responsible for registering births is the Registrar of the Church of Denmark.There are three types of Danish birth certificates:

Personattest (Certificate of Personal Data): issued to persons born in (or baptised in) Denmark.
Foedsels- og Daabsattest (Birth and Baptism Certificate): issued to persons born in Denmark and baptised in the Church of Denmark.
Foedsels- og Navneattest (Birth and Naming Certificate): issued to persons born in Denmark but not baptised in the Church of Denmark.

France
Civil records in France have been compulsory since the 1539 ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts, in which the King Francis I ordered the parishes to record baptisms, marriages and sepultures. Then in 1667 the parishes were asked to issue two registers in two different places in order to avoid the loss of data. Jews and Protestants were allowed to have their own records by Louis XVI in 1787. In 1792, the registers were fully secularized (birth, civil marriage and death replaced baptism, religious marriage and sepulture, plus an official kept the records instead of a priest), and the Code civil did create the compulsory birth certificate in 1804 (in its articles 34, 38, 39 et 57). This document should be completed at one's marriage since 1897, at one's divorce since 1939, at one's death since 1945 and at one's civil union since 2006. A note is added on the certificate for all these events.

Hong Kong
In Hong Kong, the system is similar to England and Wales, wherein the government keeps a birth register book, and the birth certificate is actually a certified copy of the birth register book entry.Currently, the Immigration Department is the official birth registrar. All parents need to register their children's birth within 42 days. Birth certificates issued between 1 July 1997 and 27 April 2008 recorded whether or not the child's Hong Kong permanent resident status was established at birth. Birth certificates issued after the latter date record which provision of the Immigration Ordinance the said status has been established under.

India
Traditionally births were poorly recorded in India.For official purposes, other proofs are accepted in India in lieu of the birth certificate, such as matriculation certificates. Facilities are available to produce a birth certificate from a passport.By law since 1969, registration of births is compulsory as per provisions of Registration of Births & Deaths Act. Birth certificates are issued by the Government of India or the municipality concerned. Specific rules vary by state, region and municipality.
In Delhi, for example, births must be registered within 21 days by the hospital or institution, or by a family member if the birth has taken place at home. After registration, a birth certificate can be obtained by applying to the relevant authority. Certificates can also be issued under special provisions to adopted children, and undocumented orphans. Overseas births can also be registered.Some municipalities, such as the Greater Chennai Corporation allow for fully digital birth certificates to be applied for, printed, and verified online.

Indonesia
The current legislation governing the registration of births is the 2006 Act No 23 on the Administration of Civil Status (UU No. 23 Tahun 2006 tentang Administrasi Kependudukan), as amended by 2013 Act No 24 on Amendments to 2006 Act No 23.

Births outside Indonesia
Pursuant to Chapter 29 of the Act, Indonesian citizens born overseas must register their births with the local civil registrar using a foreign birth certificate upon returning to Indonesia, and receive a Report of Birth Abroad (Tanda Bukti Laporan Kelahiran). If born in a jurisdiction which does not register the births of non-citizens, they will instead be issued a regular Birth Certificate by the local Indonesian overseas mission.

Births within Indonesia
Within Indonesia, local civil registrars are responsible for issuing birth certificates (akta kelahiran).
The following Staatsbladen (state gazettes), enacted by the Dutch colonial government, were supplanted by the Act:

1849 Staatsblad 25 for persons of European descent
1917 Staatsblad 130 for persons of Chinese descent
1920 Staatsblad 751 for persons of Indigenous descent
1923 Staatsblad 75 for persons of Indigenous descent professing the Christian faithPrior to 1986, persons not born in any of the above groups had to be registered through court order. This changed by a 1986 decree of the Minister of Home Affairs, resulting in a jolt in the number of births being registered. In 1989, a subsequent decree was effected by the Minister, allowing those born between 1986 and 1989 to have their births registered.There are several types of birth certificates issued to Indonesian-born individuals, per the Denpasar Civil Registry:
General Birth Certificate (Akta Kelahiran Umum)
Delayed Birth Certificate (Akta Kelahiran Terlambat)
Birth Certificate for a Child Born to a Single Mother (Akta Kelahiran Anak Seorang Ibu)Pursuant to the Act's domicile principle, a birth certificate is issued by the Civil Registry of the parents' home regency or city, as determined from their Indonesian identity card. This is not always the same place as the actual regency or city of birth of the child.
There is no such thing as a certified copy of the original birth registration form; all Indonesian birth certificates are abstracts in nature and list an individual's nationality, name, place and date of birth, birth order, parents' names and marital status only. Indonesian birth certificates are typically laminated like Malaysian and Singaporean ones; however, unlike Malaysia and Singapore, it is not done at the time of issuance by the civil registry. The Indonesian government recommends against lamination, as it may render the certificate unacceptable for use overseas (laminated certificates cannot be legalised).In 2019, Indonesian local civil registrars began to issue birth certificates with QR codes in lieu of the traditional authenticating signature and stamp. Widodo, director of civil registry services for the Bengkulu Civil Registry, is quoted as saying that "this is by decree of the Minister of Home Affairs, and will help simplify things for the general public as they will no longer be required to go through the hassle of getting [birth certificates] legalised." In July 2020, Indonesia phased out birth certificates printed on security paper, and started allowing Indonesian-born people to print out their own birth certificates on regular A4 paper; these certificates have the same legal value as birth certificates printed on security paper. The move reportedly helped the central government save 450 billion rupiahs in the 2020 fiscal year.

Iran
A shenasnameh (شناسنامه), or birth certificate is issued by the National Organization for Civil Registration. It includes the name and surname of the infant, place and date of birth, gender, information relating to the parents including their names and residences, and the "registration documentation (witness or physician's certificate). A newer format was introduced in 2015. Those eligible to replication include newborn babies, people who are changing their names, those who have lost their original birth certificates, and those born before 2001 who have reached the age of 15 and need to change their cards to add the photograph. Those applying for a new certificate must show their old certificate.

Japan
In Japan, the household registration document (jp: 戸籍, koseki) is generally used in lieu of a birth certificate.
Since a koseki also acts as proof of Japanese citizenship, only Japanese citizens can hold one. Anyone born in Japan, including children born to non-Japanese parents, can obtain a Certificate of Matters Stated In a Written Notification (jp: 出生届記載事項証明書, shussei todoke kisai jiko shomeisho). A Certificate of Matters Stated In a Written Notification may be obtained from the city/ward/town office the birth was reported to, and is the equivalent of a birth certificate. This is to be distinguished from a Certificate of Acceptance of Birth Notification (jp: 出生届受理証明 書, shussei todoke juri shomeisho), which, according to the Australian Embassy at Tokyo, only constitutes a receipt proving that a birth registration has been lodged with a city/ward/town office.Birth records for children born to non-Japanese parents in Japan are not maintained permanently; usually only for the duration of ten years from the date of lodgement, but this varies from one city/ward/town office to another.

Malaysia
In Malaysia, the National Registration Department (Jabatan Pendaftaran Negara) is responsible for the registration of births, and for issuing birth certificates (sijil kelahiran).
In 2011, the department started colour-coding birth certificates. Henceforth, citizens at birth would receive a pale-green birth certificate, while those who do not acquire Malaysian citizenship at birth would be given a red birth certificate. Then-director Datin Jariah Mohd Said was reported as saying that "it [would] address the wrong impression among foreign parents that their children automatically become Malaysians by virtue of them having the pale green certificate."Malaysian birth certificates are laminated at the time of issuance, forming an exception to most countries' need for an unlaminated document (e.g. the United Kingdom when applying for a passport).

Morocco
In Morocco, there are 3 birth documents: the "Extrait d'acte de naissance" (proof of Moroccan citizenship), a "Fiche individuelle de naissance" and an "Acte de naissance". All of them are valid for 3 months. In 2017, the government opened requests for birth certificates online.

New Zealand
The Department of Internal Affairs is responsible for issuing birth certificates in New Zealand. Certain historical records including historical birth certificates are available online in a searchable format on the Birth, Death and Marriage Historical Records website. The available records are for births recorded at least one hundred years ago.

Citizenship information is recorded on New Zealand birth certificates for births after 1 January 2006, as this was when the country formally ended its practice of jus soli.

Nigeria
The birth certificate in Nigeria is a document that entails the date of birth, location (Town, L.G.A and state) and details of the parents. It is issued by the National Population Commission for every child and is usually issued at the hospital where the child is born and it is compulsory for everyone.
The National Population Commission (NPC) formed in 1992, is the only body responsible for registering births, and issuing certificates in the country.For those who were not issued a certificate at birth, it is possible to apply for one up until their 18th birthday. However, only people aged 18 and below are issued a birth certificate. 
People above age 18 are issued an 'Age Declaration Affidavit'. Although now in Nigeria, you will have to provide an attestation letter issued by the NPC as the 'Age Declaration Affidavit' is no longer a sufficient document.
An attestation letter is a written document given as backup for the 'Age Declaration Affidavit'.
However, in terms of legal value and effect, the attestation of a birth certificate is equal to a birth certificate. 
The NPC Act states that only people born after 1992 are eligible to apply for birth certificate since that was when the NPC was formed. Also only birth certificate issued at birth or 60 days after birth is free any scenario after birth would require you to pay.

Philippines
A birth certificate in the Philippines is a document being issued by the Philippine Statistics Authority and has lifetime validity. In almost all cases, this document is required by other government agencies as a primary requirement for getting service or benefits.

Russia
Russian birth certificates were previously issued in a booklet format, similar to that of internal passports; today, they are issued on numbered and watermarked A4 security paper. They are typically issued in the Russian language only; however, if a birth is recorded in one of the Russian republics with federal subject status, the resulting birth certificate may be bilingual (Russian and the official language of the said republic).

Filling a birth certificate
A Russian birth certificate may either be filled out in type or print. It is then signed and sealed by a qualified officer of the public authority issuing the certificate (a local civil registry or Russian overseas mission). By default, information on the parents' ethnic origins is no longer recorded – however, it may be recorded upon request.

Obtaining a birth certificate
A Russian birth certificate may be applied for by the person named on the certificate if they are of full age, their parents if still vested with parental rights, their guardian(s) and/or caregiver(s). If the certificate is lost, the public authority that issued the original document issues a replacement on application.

Singapore
In Singapore, the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority is the registrar of births. All births in the country must be registered at a gazetted birth registration centre by the parents or by authorised proxy. A Certificate of Registration of Birth is received after the registration of birth; a Certificate of Extract from Register of Births is issued for all subsequent requests for birth certificates.
The ICA annotates birth certificates with citizenship information; a child born without a claim to Singapore citizenship will have a remark on their birth certificate stating "this child is not a citizen of Singapore at the time of birth". Conversely, a child born with a claim to Singapore citizenship will have "this child is a citizen of Singapore at the time of birth" on theirs.
Singaporean birth certificates are laminated at the time of issuance, forming an exception to most foreign countries' need for an unlaminated document (e.g. the United Kingdom when applying for a passport). This practice began on 1 January 1967.

Somalia
In Somalia, many births go unregistered – owing to the mainly nomadic nature of the populace.Prior to 1991, the Siad Barre government issued birth certificates (Somali: shahaadada dhalashada or warqadda dhalashada) for events occurring in urban areas. Subsequent to the collapse of said government, Somalia ceased to have a functioning birth registration system. As of January 2014, it has been reported by the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Somalia has once again started issuing birth certificates, primarily for Somali citizens to be able to obtain the new Somali passport. In Mogadishu, this function is fulfilled by the Mayor of Mogadishu.

Somali autonomous regions, such as Jubaland, Puntland, and Somaliland, have separate, functioning birth registration systems for those born within their respective jurisdictions. In Somaliland, birth certificates are routinely issued only to babies born at a hospital. Home births are registered by way of affidavit with the Somaliland Ministry of Religious Affairs at Hargeisa.

Sweden
Sweden no longer issues birth certificates. Instead, the Swedish Tax Agency will issue a Personbevis (Extract from the Population Register) for individuals born in Sweden. This takes the place of both birth and marriage certificates for international purposes. The Extract contains, inter alia, place and date of birth, parental information, marriage status, and current registered address.

Syria
In Syria, the father is primarily responsible for registering the birth of a child. Due to the ongoing civil war, many births have gone unregistered.

South Korea
Birth certificates are not issued in Korea. When a foreign embassy requests a birth certificate, Koreans submit a basic certificate containing the place of birth, date of birth, etc., and a family relations certificate containing their parents' resident registration number and name.

United Kingdom
England and Wales
In England and Wales, the description "birth certificate" is used to describe a certified copy of an entry in the birth register.Civil registration of births, marriages and deaths in England and Wales started on 1 July 1837. Registration was not compulsory until 1875, following the Registration of Births and Deaths Act 1874, which made registration of a birth the responsibility of those present at the birth. When a birth is registered, the details are entered into the register book at the local register office for the district in which the birth took
place and is retained permanently in the local register office. A copy of each entry in the birth register is sent to the General Register Office (GRO).

Pre-1837 birth and baptism records
Before the government's registration system was created, evidence of births and/or baptisms (and also marriages and death or burials) was dependent on the events being recorded in the records of the Church of England or in those of other various churches – not all of which maintained such records or all types of those records. Copies of such records are not issued by the General Register Office; but can be obtained from these churches, or from the local or national archive, which usually now keeps the records in original or copy form.

Types of certified copies issued in England and Wales
Long-form certificates are copies of the original entry in the birth register, giving all the recorded details. Information includes; name, sex, date, and place of birth of the child, parents' name, place of birth and occupation. Certificates for births registered before 1 April 1969 do not show the parents' places of birth, and those before 1984 do not show mother's occupation.Short-form certificates show the child's full name, sex, date, and place of birth. They do not give any detail(s) of the parent(s); they therefore do not prove parentage. Both versions of a certificate can be used in the verification of identity by acting as a support to other information or documentation
provided. Where proof of parentage is required, only a full certificate will be accepted.The original registrations are required by law to be issued in the form of certified copies to any person who identifies an index entry and pays the prescribed fee. They can be ordered by registered users from the General Register Office Certificate Ordering Service or by postal or telephone ordering from the General Register Office or by post or in person from local registrars. If the birth was registered within the past 50 years, detailed information is required before a certificate will be issued. The General Register Office draws on several registers for the issuance of birth certificates: the Register of Live Births, the Register of Stillbirths, the Abandoned Children Register, the Adopted Children Register, the Parental Order Register, and the Gender Recognition Register (for holders of Gender Recognition Certificates).
The General Register Office also issues birth certificates relating to births on UK-registered aircraft, vessels, and births of His Majesty's Armed Forces dependents. This authority is delegated to the Office by the Registry of Shipping and Seamen, part of the Maritime and Coastguard Agency, for births aboard UK-flagged ships; and by the Civil Aviation Authority for births aboard UK-flagged aircraft.

Rest of the British Isles
In the rest of the British Isles, there are several different birth registration authorities:

In Scotland, the National Records of Scotland.
In Northern Ireland, the General Register Office Northern Ireland (GRONI).
In Guernsey, the Greffe of the Royal Court of Guernsey.
In Jersey, the Office of the Superintendent Registrar.
In the Isle of Man, the Civil Registry. The registration of births became mandated in 1878 on the Isle.

Other cases
Consular birth registration is available for those who establish entitlement to British nationality at birth overseas. This is especially helpful when the jurisdiction in question does not allow multiple citizenship or the registration of an illegitimate child's birth. Prior to 1983, such registrations were accepted as proof of British nationality alone. Pursuant to a Reform Order by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, new consular birth registrations issued for children born after 1 January 1983, and certificates for people born before that date re-issued starting 1 January 2014, are no longer accepted as stand-alone proof of British nationality.In addition, certificates of birth issued under the Registration of  Births, Deaths and Marriages (Special Provisions) Act 1957 (registered on HM Forces bases overseas), are also not recognised as proof of nationality status alone. Such births would also have to be registered in the local authority where the birth took place, and the parents would have to apply for a foreign certificate as proof of citizenship.British Overseas Territories have their own independent regimes for issuance of a birth certificate. Additionally, as a result of Argentina's claim over the Falkland Islands, Falklander-born people may also apply for an Argentine birth certificate.

United States
In the U.S., the issuance of birth certificates is a function of the vital statistics agency or equivalent of the state, federal district, territory or former territory of birth. Birth in the U.S. typically confers citizenship by birth (non-citizen nationality in American Samoa), so a U.S. birth certificate doubly serves as evidence of United States citizenship or non-citizen nationality. U.S. birth certificates are therefore commonly provided to the federal government to obtain a U.S. passport.The U.S. State Department issues a Consular Report of Birth Abroad (which does not technically certify birth but often substitutes for a birth certificate) for children born to U.S. citizens or non-citizen nationals (who are also eligible for citizenship or non-citizen nationality), including births on military bases in foreign territory. Children who do not receive the certificate at the time of birth may apply for it anytime until the age of 18. Natural-born citizens of the United States born abroad may receive a USCIS Certificate of Citizenship instead to prove their citizenship status.
The federal and state governments have traditionally cooperated to some extent to improve vital statistics. From 1900 to 1946 the U.S. Census Bureau designed standard birth certificates, collected vital statistics on a national basis, and generally sought to improve the accuracy of vital statistics. In 1946 that responsibility was passed to the U.S. Public Health Service. Unlike the British system of recording all births in "registers", the states file an individual document for each and every birth.The U.S. National Center for Health Statistics creates standard forms that are recommended for use by the individual states to document births. However, states are free to create their own forms. As a result, neither the appearance nor the information content of birth certificate forms is uniform across states. These forms are completed by the attendant at birth or a hospital administrator, which are then forwarded to a local or state registrar, who stores the record and issues certified copies upon request.

Birth certificates for individuals born in or adopted to the United States
According to the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, as of 2000 there were more than 6,000 entities issuing birth certificates. The Inspector General report stated that according to the staff at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Forensics Document Laboratory the number of legitimate birth certificate versions in use exceeded 14,000.

Short-form birth certificates and acceptance thereof
In the case of applying for a U.S. passport, not all legitimate government-issued birth certificates are acceptable:
A certified birth certificate has a registrar's raised, embossed, impressed or multicolored seal, registrar's signature, and the date the certificate was filed with the registrar's office, which must be within 1 year of your birth. Please note, some short (abstract) versions of birth certificates may not be acceptable for passport purposes.
Beginning June 10, 2009, all birth certificates must also include the full name of the applicant's parent(s).
The U.S. State Department has paid close attention to abstract certificates from both Texas and California. There have been reports of a high incidence of midwife registration fraud along the border region between Texas and Mexico, and the Texas abstract certificate form does not list the name or occupation of the attendant. The California Abstract of Birth did not include an embossed seal, was no longer considered a secure document, and have not been issued in California since 2001.

Souvenir birth certificates
Most hospitals in the U.S. issue a souvenir birth certificate which may include the footprints of the newborn. However, these birth certificates are not legally accepted as proof of age or citizenship, and are frequently rejected by the Bureau of Consular Affairs during passport applications. Many Americans believe the souvenir records to be their official birth certificates when, in reality, they hold little legal value.

Birth certificates after adoption
When an adoption is finalized in the U.S., most states and the District of Columbia seal the original birth certificate. In its place, a replacement or amended birth certificate is issued, with the adoptee's new name and adoptive parents listed "as if" the adoptee was born to the adoptive parents. Adopted persons in ten states have an unrestricted right to obtain a copy of the original birth certificate when they are adults: Alabama, Alaska, Colorado, Connecticut, Kansas, Maine, New Hampshire, New York, Oregon, and Rhode Island. The remaining states and the District of Columbia either require a court order to release a copy of the original birth certificate or have other restrictions, such as permission of biological parent(s) or redaction of information upon request of a biological parent.For foreign-born intercountry adoptees, U.S. jurisdictions may issue a Certificate of Foreign Birth that serves as documentary evidence of the child's birth and the child's legal relationship to the adoptive United States parents. These certificates, however, do not serve as evidence of U.S. citizenship and must be supplemented by another document to prove citizenship, such as a Certificate of Citizenship, a United States passport or a Certificate of Naturalization.

Consular reports of birth for individuals born overseas
Prior to 1990, the Vital Records Section of the Department's Passport Services office was responsible for certifying American births overseas, and issued form FS-545, formally known as a Certification of Birth Abroad of a Citizen of the United States of America. In 1990, the department changed its policy to make clear that a report issued by them is only supplementary to, and does not substitute for a locally issued birth certificate; the report, however, does serve as prima facie documentary evidence of the acquisition of United States citizenship or non-citizen nationality at birth. The department contends that the issuance of birth certificates is a function that is expressly reserved to local vital statistics authorities and may not be assumed by a consular officer.
Notwithstanding the Department's position, however, a consular report of birth is often the only government-issued record of birth for certain individuals. For example, those born on a U.S. Armed Forces base in Germany do not have their births registered with the local German registrar, but only with the Department of State. Because they cannot receive a German birth certificate, their CRBA is their de facto birth certificate. Between 1990 and December 2010, the department issued form DS-1350, formally known as a Certification of Report of Birth of a United States Citizen; and form FS-240, formally known as the Consular Report of Birth Abroad of a Citizen of the United States of America. Since January 2011, the Department of State has issued only form FS-240.

See also
Birth registration in ancient Rome
Birth registration campaign in Liberia
Closed adoption
Death certificate
Identity card
Use of birth certificates in smart contracts
Marriage certificate
Marriage license
Passport
Sealed birth records
Vital record
People's Republic of China Marriage Certificate
Passage 6:
Malko Tarnovo Municipality
Malko Tarnovo Municipality (Bulgarian: Община Малко Търново, Obshtina Malko Tarnovo) is a municipality in Burgas Province, Bulgaria. It includes the town of Malko Tarnovo and a number of villages.

Demographics
Religion
According to the latest Bulgarian census of 2011, the religious composition, among those who answered the optional question on religious identification, was the following:
Passage 7:
Cargo 360
Cargo 360 was a cargo airline based in Seattle, Washington, USA. It specialised in ACMI (Aircraft, Crew, Maintenance and Insurance) wet lease operations. Its main headquarters was at Seattle–Tacoma International Airport.

History
The airline started operations on 15 May 2006. It was established by H. David Greenberg, and other entrepreneurs. The airline was owned by Oak Hill Capital Partners (86%) and David Greenberg, President and CEO (14%).On July 30, 2007, Oak Hill Capital Partners acquired Southern Air and merged the two airlines into one, giving birth to Southern Air Holdings, Inc. Consequently, Cargo 360 was absorbed into Southern Air in January 2008 and ceased operating under its own colors.
The logo and aircraft livery was designed by Dave and Jackie Greenberg and Chad Hill while with Redorchestra Creative (now defunct) in Chicago, IL.

Destinations
Cargo 360 had an ACMI contract with Korean Air Cargo between Incheon International Airport Incheon, South Korea and multiple destinations within the United States.

Fleet
As of September 2007, the Cargo 360 fleet included:
1 Boeing 747-3B5M(SF) - N301JD
2 Boeing 747-2B5F/SCD - N298JD and N299JD

See also
List of defunct airlines of the United States
Passage 8:
Female reproductive system
The female reproductive system is made up of the internal and external sex organs that function in the reproduction of new offspring. In humans, the female reproductive system is immature at birth and develops to maturity at puberty to be able to produce gametes, and to carry a fetus to full term. The internal sex organs are the vagina, uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries. The female reproductive tract includes the vagina, uterus, and fallopian tubes and is prone to infections. The vagina allows for sexual intercourse and childbirth, and is connected to the uterus at the cervix.  The uterus or womb accommodates the embryo which develops into the fetus. The uterus also produces secretions which help the transit of sperm to the fallopian tubes, where sperm fertilize ova (egg cells) produced by the ovaries. The external sex organs are also known as the genitals and these are the organs of the vulva including the labia, clitoris, and vaginal opening.During the menstrual cycle, the ovaries release an ovum, which transits through the fallopian tube into the uterus. If an egg cell meets with sperm on its way to the uterus, a single sperm cell can enter and merge with it, fertilizing it into a zygote.
Fertilization usually occurs in the fallopian tubes and marks the beginning of embryogenesis. The zygote will then divide over enough generations of cells to form a blastocyst, which implants itself in the wall of the uterus. This begins the period of gestation and the embryo will continue to develop until full-term. When the fetus has developed enough to survive outside the uterus, the cervix dilates and contractions of the uterus propel the newborn through the birth canal (the vagina).
The corresponding equivalent among males is the male reproductive system.

External organs
The female external reproductive organs are the secondary sex organs that are visible externally.

Vulva
The vulva consists of all of the external parts and tissues and includes the mons pubis, pudendal cleft, labia majora, labia minora, Bartholin's glands, Skene's glands, clitoris, urethra, and vaginal opening.

Internal organs
The female internal reproductive organs are the vagina, uterus, Fallopian tubes, and ovaries.

Vagina
The vagina is a fibromuscular (made up of fibrous and muscular tissue) canal leading from the outside of the body to the cervix of the uterus or womb. It is also referred to as the birth canal in the context of pregnancy. The vagina accommodates the male penis during sexual intercourse. Semen containing spermatozoa is ejaculated from the male at orgasm, into the vagina potentially enabling fertilization of the egg cell (ovum) to take place.

Cervix
The cervix is the neck of the uterus, the lower, narrow portion where it joins with the upper part of the vagina. It is cylindrical or conical in shape and protrudes through the upper anterior vaginal wall. Approximately half its length is visible, the remainder lies above the vagina beyond view. The vagina has a thick layer outside and it is the opening where the fetus emerges during delivery.

Uterus
The uterus or womb is the major female reproductive organ. The uterus provides mechanical protection, nutritional support, and waste removal for the developing embryo (weeks 1 to 8) and fetus (from week 9 until the delivery). In addition, contractions in the muscular wall of the uterus are important in pushing out the fetus at the time of birth.
The uterus contains three suspensory ligaments that help stabilize the position of the uterus and limits its range of movement. The uterosacral ligaments keep the body from moving inferiorly and anteriorly. The round ligaments restrict posterior movement of the uterus. The cardinal ligaments also prevent the inferior movement of the uterus.
The uterus is a pear-shaped muscular organ. Its major function is to accept a fertilized ovum which becomes implanted into the endometrium, and derives nourishment from blood vessels which develop exclusively for this purpose. The fertilized ovum becomes an embryo, develops into a fetus and gestates until childbirth. If the egg does not embed in the wall of the uterus, a female begins menstruation.

Fallopian tube
The Fallopian tubes are two tubes leading from the ovaries into the uterus. On maturity of an ovum, the follicle and the ovary's wall rupture, allowing the ovum to escape and enter the Fallopian tube. There it travels toward the uterus, pushed along by movements of cilia on the inner lining of the tubes. This trip takes hours or days.  If the ovum is fertilized while in the Fallopian tube, then it normally implants in the endometrium when it reaches the uterus, which signals the beginning of pregnancy.

Ovaries
The ovaries are small, paired organs located near the lateral walls of the pelvic cavity. These organs are responsible for the production of the egg cells (ova) and the secretion of hormones.  The process by which the egg cell (ovum) is released is called ovulation. The speed of ovulation is periodic and impacts directly to the length of a menstrual cycle.
After ovulation, the egg cell is captured by the Fallopian tube, after traveling down the Fallopian tube to the uterus, occasionally being fertilized on its way by an incoming sperm. During fertilization the egg cell plays a role; it releases certain molecules that are essential to guiding the sperm and allows the surface of the egg to attach to the sperm's surface. The egg can then absorb the sperm and fertilization can then begin.

Function
The female reproductive system functions to produce offspring.
In the absence of fertilization, the ovum will eventually traverse the entire reproductive tract from the fallopian tube until exiting the vagina through menstruation.
The reproductive tract can be used for various transluminal procedures such as fertiloscopy, intrauterine insemination, and transluminal sterilization.

Development
Chromosome characteristics determine the genetic sex of a fetus at conception. This is specifically based on the 23rd pair of chromosomes that is inherited. Since the mother's egg contains an X chromosome and the father's sperm contains either an X or Y chromosome, it is the male who determines the fetus's sex. If the fetus inherits the X chromosome from the father, the fetus will be a female. In this case, testosterone is not made and the Wolffian duct will degrade thus, the Müllerian duct will develop into female sex organs. The clitoris is the remnants of the Wolffian duct. On the other hand, if the fetus inherits the Y chromosome from the father, the fetus will be a male. The presence of testosterone will stimulate the Wolffian duct which will bring about the development of the male sex organs and the Müllerian duct will degrade.

Clinical significance
Vaginitis
Vaginitis is inflammation of the vagina and largely caused by an infection. It is the most common gynaecological condition presented. It is difficult to determine any one organism most responsible for vaginitis because it varies from range of age, sexual activity, and method of microbial identification. Vaginitis is not necessarily caused by a sexually transmitted infection as there are many infectious agents that make use of the close proximity to mucous membranes and secretions. Vaginitis is usually diagnosed based on the presence of vaginal discharge, which can have a certain color, odor, or quality.

Bacterial vaginosis
This is a vaginal infection in women. It differs from vaginitis in that there is no inflammation. Bacterial vaginosis is polymicrobial, consisting of many bacteria species. The diagnosis for bacterial vaginosis is made if three of the following four criteria are present: (1) Homogenous, thin discharge, (2) a pH of 4.5 in the vagina, (3) epithelial cells in the vagina with bacteria attached to them, or (4) a fishy odor. It has been associated with an increased risk of other genital tract infections such as endometritis.

Yeast infection
This is a common cause of vaginal irritation and according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at least 75% of adult women have experienced one at least once in their lifetime. Yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of fungus in the vagina known as Candida. Yeast infections are usually caused by an imbalance of the pH in the vagina, which is usually acidic. Other factors such as pregnancy, diabetes, weakened immune systems, tight fitting clothing, or douching can also be a cause. Symptoms of yeast infections include itching, burning, irritation, and a white cottage-cheese-like discharge from the vagina. Women have also reported that they experience painful intercourse and urination as well. Taking a sample of the vaginal secretions and placing them under a microscope for evidence of yeast can diagnose a yeast infection. Treatment varies from creams that can be applied in or around the vaginal area to oral tablets that stop the growth of fungus.

Genital mutilation
There are many practices of mutilating female genitalia in different cultures. The most common two types of genital mutilation practiced are clitoridectomy, the circumcision of the clitoris and the excision of the prepuce the skin around the clitoris. They can all involve a range of adverse health consequences such as bleeding, irreparable tissue damage, and sepsis which can sometimes prove fatal.

Genital surgery
Genitoplasty refers to surgery that is carried out to repair damaged sex organs particularly following cancer and its treatment.
There are also elective surgical procedures which change the appearance of the external genitals.

Birth control
There are many types of birth control available to females.  Birth control can be hormonal or physical in nature.  Oral contraception can assist with management of various medical conditions, such as menorrhagia.  However, oral contraceptives can have a variety of side effects, including depression.

Reproductive rights
The International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics was founded in 1954 to promote the well-being of women particularly in raising the standards of gynaecological practice and care. As of 2010 there were 124 countries involved.
Reproductive rights are legal rights related to reproduction and reproductive health. Women have the right to control matters involving their sexuality including their sexual and reproductive health. Violation of these rights include forced pregnancy, forced sterilization, forced abortion and genital mutilation. Female genital mutilation is the complete or partial removal of a female's external genitals.

History
It is claimed in the Hippocratic writings that both males and females contribute their seed to conception; otherwise, children would not resemble either or both of their parents. Four-hundred years later, Galen "identified" the source of 'female semen' as the ovaries in female reproductive organs.

See also
Conception
Development of the reproductive system
Evolution of sexual reproduction
Female infertility
Oogenesis
Human sexuality § Female anatomy and reproductive system
Orgasm § In females
Passage 9:
Sleen
Sleen is a village in Drenthe, Netherlands of about 2,500 people. Sleen has been inhabited for centuries. Much ancient history can be found in the area, particularly in the forests (which are planted, though). At birth and during the Republiek der Zeven Verenigde Nederlanden (Republic of the Seven United Netherlands (1581–1795)). Sleen became the capital of one of the six “dingspels” (administrative areas) of Drenthe. When Drenthe was recognised as a province, Sleen became a municipality capital, before it merged into the municipality of Coevorden.
Sleen has a 450-year-old church. At about 68 meters, it is the highest church in the entire province. Nowadays, it functions as a Dutch Reformed Church. There is also another Protestant church in the village.
Nowadays, Sleen has its own supermarket (behind the former police station), library,  fish stand (every Wednesday), cafés, a few other shops, hair salons, petrol station, sports park (soccer, tennis, multipurpose indoor complex), horse riding school, houses for the elderly, and other facilities.
There are also two schools: CBS “de Fontein” (Christian primary school) and OBS “de Akker” (public primary school).
“De Brink” is the “centre” and the old part of the village, with some historic houses and a brick road. This is also where the two churches are, and other facilities like the former municipal centre. New houses were constructed over time, and an area known as “de nieuwbouw” is where the most recently constructed houses can be found.
The famous Pieterpad (a long hiking route that runs from Pieterburen in the north of the country to the St Pietersberg in Maastricht in the south) goes straight through Sleen. The windmill De Hoop has been restored to working order.

Notable people
Joël Voordewind (born 1965), politician
Passage 10:
Star Trek: Birth of the Federation
Star Trek: Birth of the Federation (also known as Star Trek: The Next Generation: Birth of the Federation and Birth of the Federation) is a 4X turn-based strategy video game developed by MicroProse and published by Hasbro Interactive. The game was initially released in 1999 for Windows personal computers.
The game is set in the Star Trek fictional universe, specifically related to Star Trek: The Next Generation. The player takes control of one of five civilisations, either the Federation, Ferengi, Klingons, Romulans or Cardassians. Thirty other races from the Star Trek universe are included as minor races in the game. In addition to the strategy mode of the game, Birth of the Federation also features a 3D combat mode which uses the Falcon 4.0 engine.
The game's release was intended to tie-in with the film Star Trek: Insurrection. Birth of the Federation received average to good ratings from critics, who praised the look of the game but were critical of the AI of enemy factions, the research technologies and the time it took to play. It was compared to other games such as Master of Orion II and Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri.

Gameplay
The game is a 4X turn-based computer strategy game set in The Next Generation era of Star Trek, with only starships and races from that series and movies. There are no ships or races from The Original Series or Star Trek: Voyager unless they appeared on The Next Generation. For example, the Romulan Warbird from The Next Generation appears, but the Romulan Bird of Prey from The Original Series does not. There are two designs from Deep Space Nine that are in the game: the Heavy Escort Defiant Class and the Cardassian Starbase design used for Deep Space Nine, both of which appeared in a TNG episode or movie as well. The game is played on a 2d Galaxy Map which represents star systems, task forces, empire borders and other space phenomena via the use of icons. Map size varies: small (10x13), medium (12x16), and huge (18x26). There are also separate screens for empire research, colony management, intelligence and diplomacy which are all accessed from a right-click main menu.The player starts with a star system under their control and the purpose of the game is to create the most powerful empire in the galaxy. This is achieved through diplomacy, colonization of new worlds and defeating rivals. Winning the game in an alliance with a rival empire is also possible. Unlike similar games such as Master of Orion, diplomacy isn't the core means of winning the game for all factions. Instead the victory conditions also allow for the player to win if they control 60% of the population of the galaxy and the inhabited systems, but an alliance with another empire increases the percentage required to 75%. The "Vendetta" victory conditions requires an Empire to defeat two rivals; for the Federation it is the Romulans and the Cardassians.Space Battles are turn-based, and allow for the player to issue orders to individual vessels. The player then watches the two sides follow their respective orders at the same time. These sequences can be recorded and replayed later in multiple camera angles. Space combats can also be skipped, allowing the computer to work out the results. Unlike games like Master of Orion II, there is no ability to customise the look of individual vessels or classes. Each of these use predefined designs. Multiplayer for up to five players can be played over a LAN, and was available on the internet via Hasbro Interactive's Games.com.The player is also required to manage resources for their empire. At an individual system level, the player must manage energy to power structures, food to feed the population and industry units which determines how quickly ships and structures can be constructed. Across an empire, the player must also manage credits which allow for structures and ships to be instantly constructed, to support ships beyond the maximum allowed by the population and to be used as gifts or bribes. In addition to population, the number of starships that an empire can build simultaneously is restricted by the number of dilithium refineries it owns.

Factions
Although the title of the game is Birth of the Federation, the player can choose from five major powers: The Federation, the Klingon Empire, the Romulan Star Empire, the Cardassian Union, and the Ferengi Alliance. Each of these factions have different advantages, so while the Federation is more proficient at diplomacy, the Klingons are better in military matters, and the Romulans at espionage. The Ferengi are the best at trading and have the unique ability to set up trade routes with minor factions without the need for treaties, and the Cardassians benefit from an increased production speed. In addition, the minor races can be befriended by the player and can eventually become part of their empire (either by joining peacefully or by conquest). There are 30 minor races in the game. Each minor race adds a unique ability to the empire that controls them, for example the Bolians allow the player to construct a building which increases the effectiveness of spies in the game, and the Betazoids (with their telepathy) boost the effectiveness of counterintelligence.

Production
MicroProse had developed similar games such as Civilization (1991) and had been involved in the publishing of the Simtex games Master of Orion (1993), Master of Magic (1994) and Master of Orion II: Battle at Antares (1996). Simtex itself closed in 1997, but Birth of the Federation had been described by critics as an unofficial sequel to the Orion games, and was in the mold of Civilization and Master of Magic. Microprose had the rights to create games based on Star Trek: The Next Generation, but did not hold the rights to Star Trek: The Original Series which were held by Interplay Entertainment.The 3D battle sequences used the Falcon 4.0 engine, with each vessel rendered fully. In addition to being called Star Trek: The Next Generation: Birth of the Federation, it was also referred to as Star Trek: Birth of the Federation. Microprose previewed the game alongside Star Trek: Klingon Honour Guard at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in Atlanta, Georgia, in May 1998.The release of Birth of the Federation was intended to coincide with the theatrical release of the film Star Trek: Insurrection. Birth of the Federation was released on May 25, 1999, in the United States, and on May 28, in the United Kingdom.

Reception
The game received average reviews according to the review aggregation website GameRankings. Peter Suciu reviewed the game for CNN, and criticised the computer AI as it didn't portray the races in the same manner as in the television series. For example, the Klingon faction will seek peace agreements when they begin to lose a war, and the Federation will request tributes in order to prevent that faction from attacking the player. He was also disappointed that the earlier ships were still from Star Trek: The Next Generation rather than Star Trek: The Original Series. Suciu felt that the game was on-par with both Master of Orion and Master of Orion II, and said that knowledge of the races "makes for a more compelling game". Keith Ferrell in his review for Computer Gaming World said that whilst the game was "attractively presented", the learning curve was steep and took a long time to play through. However, Daniel Erickson in his review for NextGen called it "A wonderful look at the Star Trek universe, but the actual game is sleep-inducing."The review in PC Magazine described Birth of the Federation said that the game had a "cool design" and "evocative music". Mark Hill's review in PC Zone praised the turn based strategy mode, but described the battle sequences as "somewhat lacking". He forgave that issue as the rest of the game was so "absorbing", and said that it was an "essential purchase for hard-core strategy nuts." He called it "the best Star Trek game yet."Trent C. Ward's review for IGN said that while the menu screens were "really cool-looking", they did a poor job when the game became complex because of the expansion of the player's empire during the course of the game. This meant that it could take up to fifteen minutes for each turn because the player would have to constantly click into and out of the various menu systems. As with the review for CNN, the IGN review also criticised the lack of a link between the diplomatic characteristics in the game and those seen in the television series. It summed up the game, saying "Birth of the Federation is nothing more than a frustrating copy of earlier turn based strategy games that doesn't work like it's supposed to. My recommendation is to leave this one on the shelf."The game entered the British all-format games charts at number five, the second highest new entry for that week. After one week, it dropped to tenth place, and then moved out of the top ten altogether in the week after that.In 2017, PC Gamer ranked the game among the best Star Trek games.

Notes
Passage 11:
A Prisoner of Birth
A Prisoner of Birth is a mystery novel by English author Jeffrey Archer, first published on 6 March 2008 by Macmillan. This book is a contemporary retelling of Dumas's 1844 novel The Count of Monte Cristo. The novel saw Archer return to the first place in the fiction best-seller list for the first time in a decade.

Plot summary
After proposing to his childhood sweetheart Beth Wilson, Danny Cartwright takes her and her brother Bernie to celebrate at a nearby pub. In the pub, they are accosted by four people. Danny, Beth and Bernie attempt to leave the pub without getting involved in a fracas, but Spencer Craig, one of the four that confronted them, follows them out of the pub along with his friends.
A fight breaks out; Bernie is stabbed and dies. Danny is blamed for his murder in a well-orchestrated plot by Spencer (a barrister) and his friends: a popular actor, an aristocrat, and a young estate agent. Danny is arrested and convicted. Sentenced to 22 years in Belmarsh prison, the highest security jail in South-east London, United Kingdom, he encounters his two cellmates, Albert Crann, known as "Big Al," and Sir Nicholas Moncrieff. Meanwhile, outside the prison, Beth is pregnant with Danny's daughter.
Sir Nicholas slowly teaches Danny to read and to write. Their friendship grows closer, and Danny decides to dress like his friend in the hope that it will help his upcoming appeal. Danny begins to gather evidence for his appeal with the help of a young lawyer, Alex Redmayne, but unable to present the new evidence, Danny's appeal is denied, and he must serve his complete sentence in Belmarsh prison. He tries to escape several times but of no avail.
Nicholas is murdered by a fellow inmate and his death is made to be seen as a suicide by the murderer. The dead body is mistakenly presumed to be that of Danny's by the guards due to similarities between Nick and Danny's height and features. The timely intervention of Big Al leads to the subsequent escape of Danny who pretends to be Nick (who had completed his sentence in prison). On the outside of the prison, Danny pretends to be Nicholas. He finds that he must sort out his friend's family affairs before pursuing his goals of clearing his name and taking revenge upon the four individuals who framed him for Bernie's murder.
A lengthy legal battle between himself and Nicholas' hated uncle Hugo leaves Danny Cartwright in the possession of over 50 million pounds with which he plans to expose Spencer Craig and clear his name, so that he will be able to live with Beth and his daughter.
Danny is caught out by Nick's friends and is held in custody. While his counsel begins Danny's bid for freedom his accusers are all brought to justice. Alex's father (an ex-barrister, QC, and Judge at the High Court) gains Danny's freedom and his name is cleared. Danny has another child and is called Nick in honour of his friend. Alex (his barrister) is made godfather for all his hard work in freeing Danny.
Passage 12:
Sincik
Sincik (Kurdish: Sinciq) is a town of Adıyaman Province of Turkey. It is the seat of Sincik District. The town is populated by Kurds of the Reşwan tribe and had a population of 4,344 in 2021. The mayor is Mehmet Korkut (BBP).
The town is divided into the neighborhoods of Ayengin, Cumhuriyet, Fatih, Karaman, Mahmutoğlu (Serindere), Onur and Zeynel Aslan.
Passage 13:
29th government of Turkey
The 29th government of Turkey (20 February 1965 – 27 October 1965) was a caretaker government in Turkey. The prime minister was Suat Hayri Ürgüplü, an independent. Four parties supported him: Justice Party (AP), New Turkey Party (YTP), Republican Villagers Nation Party (CKMP), and Nation Party (MP). (This was the only time Nation Party ever participated in a government).

The government
Some of the cabinet members were changed during the lifespan of the cabinet. In the list below, the serving period of cabinet members who served only a part of the cabinet's lifespan are shown in the column "Notes".

Aftermath
The government resigned after the elections held on 10 October 1965, which the Justice Party won by a landslide. The 29th government was succeeded by the government of Süleyman Demirel.
Passage 14:
Suat Hayri Ürgüplü
Ali Suat Hayri Ürgüplü (13 August 1903, in Damascus, Ottoman Empire – 26 December 1981, in Istanbul, Turkey) was a Turkish politician who served a brief term as Prime Minister of Turkey in 1965. He was also the last Prime Minister to be born outside the territory of present-day Turkey, being born in Damascus, which was then part of the Ottoman Empire.

Early life
Ürgüplü graduated from Galatasaray High School. He was the descendant of a distinguished line of Ottoman religious scholars and administrators. His father was the celebrated Sheikh ul-Islam Ürgüplü Hayri Efendi, minister of religious affairs under the Committee of Union and Progress (or Young Turk) regime of 1913–1918.

Career
After a brief career as a judge, Ürgüplü entered the Parliament in 1939 and served as Minister of Customs and Public Monopolies in the Şükrü Saracoğlu cabinet in 1947–1948. He returned to the senate of Parliament in 1961 and was its chairman from 27 November 1963 to 6 November 1963. Ürgüplü was asked to form a non-partisan caretaker cabinet after the collapse of Premier İsmet İnönü's coalition government in 1965. The cabinet was formed on 5 February, and served until the parliamentary elections of 10 October, although it never received a vote of confidence in Parliament.
Ürgüplü continued to serve in the senate until 1972. He died on 27 December 1981 in Istanbul and was interred at the 
Edirnekapı Martyr's Cemetery.
Passage 15:
Hayrat
Hayrat is a town and district of Trabzon Province, located in the Black Sea region of Turkey. The mayor is Mehmet Nuhoğlu (AKP).

History
During World War I, occupied by the Russians, Hayrat was freed from the occupation on 28 February 1918.
Passage 16:
Naim Talu
Mehmet Naim Talu (22 July 1919 – 15 May 1998) was a Turkish economist, banker, politician and former Prime Minister of Turkey.

Biography
Naim Talu was born in Istanbul in 1919. He was educated at Kabataş Erkek Lisesi. After graduating with a degree in economics from Istanbul University in 1943, he worked for a while in Sümerbank, a state owned textile company. He transferred to the Central Bank of Turkey in 1946. He became the general director of the bank in 1967 after serving one year as deputy. Following the reorganization of the Central Bank in 1970, he was appointed Governor of this institution. He died in Istanbul in 1998.

Political career
Naim Talu started his political career in 1971 by appointment to the ministry of trade in the second Erim cabinet. He kept his post also in the cabinet of Melen until President Cevdet Sunay admitted him to the Senate in 1972. Commissioned by President Fahri Korutürk following the resignation of Prime Minister Ferit Melen, he formed the 36th government on 15 April 1973 in consensus of the Justice Party with the Republican Reliance Party. His caretaker government lasted beyond the general elections in 1973, which did not set a clear majority for any party. With the forming of a coalition cabinet of the Republican People's Party along with the National Salvation Party under Bülent Ecevit on 26 January 1974, Talu's prime ministry ended. His membership in the Senate continued until 1976.
Naim Talu was a member of the board of Akbank, one of Turkey's largest banks, between 1974 and 1976, prior to his appointment as the chairman, which lasted until shortly before his death in 1998. He served the same period as a member of the board of trustees of the Sabancı Foundation VakSA.
He was survived by his wife Gevher Talu and his two daughters Tülin Talu and Füsun San.