Passage 1:
American Horror Story: Freak Show
The fourth season of the American horror anthology television series American Horror Story, subtitled Freak Show, is set in 1952 Jupiter, Florida, telling the story of one of the last remaining freak shows in the United States and their struggle for survival. The ensemble cast includes Sarah Paulson, Evan Peters, Michael Chiklis, Frances Conroy, Denis O'Hare, Emma Roberts, Finn Wittrock, Angela Bassett, Kathy Bates, and Jessica Lange, with all returning from previous seasons, except newcomers Chiklis and Wittrock. The season marks the first not to be strictly anthological, with Lily Rabe, Naomi Grossman, and John Cromwell reprising their roles from the series' second cycle, Asylum.
Created by Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk for cable network FX, the series is produced by 20th Century Fox Television. Freak Show was broadcast between October 8, 2014, to January 21, 2015, consisting of 13 episodes. Like its predecessors, the season was met with positive reviews and consistently strong ratings. The premiere episode attracted a series high of 6.13 million viewers, making it the most viewed episode of the series. It ultimately became FX's most-watched program ever, surpassing its previous installment, Coven. The season garnered a total of twenty Emmy Award nominations, the most for any season of American Horror Story to date, including nominations for Outstanding Limited Series, and six acting nominations for Lange, O'Hare, Wittrock, Paulson, Bassett, and Bates. In addition, Paulson won for Best Supporting Actress in a Movie or Limited Series at the 5th Critics' Choice Television Awards.

Cast and characters
Main
Sarah Paulson as Bette and Dot Tattler
Evan Peters as Jimmy Darling
Michael Chiklis as Dell Toledo
Frances Conroy as Gloria Mott
Denis O'Hare as Stanley
Emma Roberts as Maggie Esmerelda
Finn Wittrock as Dandy Mott
Angela Bassett as Desiree Dupree
Kathy Bates as Ethel Darling
Jessica Lange as Elsa Mars

Special guest stars
Wes Bentley as Edward Mordrake
Celia Weston as Lillian Hemmings
Gabourey Sidibe as Regina Ross
Matt Bomer as Andy
Danny Huston as Massimo Dolcefino
Lily Rabe as Sister Mary Eunice McKee
Neil Patrick Harris as Chester Creb

Recurring
Naomi Grossman as Pepper
Grace Gummer as Penny
Chrissy Metz as Barbara / Ima Wiggles
Malcolm-Jamal Warner as Angus T. Jefferson
Erika Ervin as Amazon Eve
Mat Fraser as Paul the Illustrated Seal
Jyoti Amge as Ma Petite
Rose Siggins as Legless Suzi
Ben Woolf as Meep
Lee Tergesen as Vince
Christopher Neiman as Salty
Drew Rin Varick as Toulouse
PJ Marshall as Detective Colquitt
John Carroll Lynch as Twisty the Clown
Major Dodson as Corey Bachman
Skyler Samuels as Bonnie Lipton
Patti LaBelle as Dora Ross

Guest stars
Jamie Brewer as Marjorie
Mare Winningham as Rita Gayheart
Matthew Glave as Larry Gayheart
David Burtka as Michael Beck
Heather Langenkamp as Female Toulouse
Jerry Leggio as Dr. Bonham
Dalton E. Gray as Mike
Shauna Rappold as Lucy Creb
Kathy Deitch as young Ethel Darling
Edward Gelhaus as young Dell Toledo
Jyoti Amge as Ma Petite
Angela Sarafyan as Alice
John Cromwell as young Arthur Arden

Episodes
Production
Development
In November 2013, FX announced that the show had been renewed for a fourth season. Series co-creator Ryan Murphy hinted that clues about the fourth season would be hidden in the final episodes of the third season. In March 2014, the season was revealed to be set at a carnival, according to co-executive producer/writer Douglas Petrie. It was also revealed that Lange would be playing a role similar to Marlene Dietrich. Murphy revealed that the season would take place in 1950, adding: "If you look historically what happened in the year 1950, there's some more clues in that year. It's a period piece. We try and do the opposite of what we've done before. Jessica Lange has already started practicing her German accent, so I'm very excited!" Murphy indicated that this season drew inspiration from Tod Browning's Freaks and Herk Harvey's Carnival of Souls. This season featured the largest set ever constructed for American Horror Story, with Murphy stating: "We had to build an entire city. We built an entire huge compound, and then we had to build the interior of all those buildings on set. It's all, period. And it's all based on [production designer] Mark Worthington's immaculate research."

Casting
Ryan Murphy confirmed that Jessica Lange would be returning for a fourth season, although said to be in a reduced capacity. She portrayed Elsa Mars, the owner of the freak show. In November 2013, Murphy said he approached Kathy Bates and Angela Bassett to return. Bassett later confirmed in an interview with Access Hollywood that she would be indeed coming back. They portrayed Ethel Darling and Desiree Dupree, respectively. In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Sarah Paulson revealed she would be returning, possibly for a main role, which was later revealed to be the conjoined twins Bette and Dot Tattler. It was announced at the PaleyFest 2014 that the cast members present at the panel would all be returning for the fourth season in some capacity, including Denis O'Hare (Stanley), Emma Roberts (Maggie Esmerelda), Frances Conroy (Gloria Mott), Evan Peters (Jimmy Darling), and Gabourey Sidibe (Regina Ross). Jamie Brewer was also added to the present roster, although Murphy later indicated Brewer may not appear during the season. She was later confirmed to portray the ventriloquist dummy Marjorie after appearing in a promo for the final episodes. Additionally, Michael Chiklis was announced to play the father of Peters' character and ex-husband of Bates' character, the strongman Dell Toledo. Finn Wittrock was the last lead actor joining the cast. He portrayed the psychopathic Dandy Mott.
In July 2014, TVLine reported that Wes Bentley would appear in the season' two-part Halloween episode as Edward Mordrake. At the Comic-Con 2014, it was announced that John Carroll Lynch would portray one of the central antagonist during the season, Twisty the Clown. In August 2014, R&B singer Patti LaBelle joined the cast for a four-episode story arc as the mother of Sidibe's character, named Dora, the Motts' housekeeper. Also in August 2014, it was revealed that Matt Bomer would  be guest-starring in one episode as Andy, Dell's secret lover. Murphy took to his Twitter account to announce that the world's smallest woman Jyoti Amge has joined the cast as Ma Petite. Murphy had written a role specifically for Coven alum Leslie Jordan, but he did not appear on the show due to scheduling conflicts.In September 2014, it was reported that Asylum alum Naomi Grossman would return to portray Pepper, which marked the first time a character appeared in multiple seasons of the series. Lily Rabe also reprised her Asylum character Sister Mary Eunice McKee in the tenth episode, "Orphans". Mare Winningham made an appearance in the same episode, as Pepper's sister Rita. Neil Patrick Harris guest starred in two episodes as Chester, who takes over the freak show when Elsa leaves for Hollywood. Harris' husband, David Burtka, appeared in the season finale as Elsa's husband.

Filming
At Paley Center for Media's 2014 PaleyFest event, Ryan Murphy announced that the season's filming would take place again in New Orleans, Louisiana, although the show's setting is in Jupiter, Florida. The premiere episode was directed by co-creator Murphy, his first effort since the pilot. Principal photography for the season began on July 15, 2014. Production on the season concluded on December 19, 2014.

Marketing
A video released in July 2014, entitled "Fallen Angel", was reported by many news sources to be an official Freak Show trailer. The video – which featured the American Horror Story title card – was later taken down after FX confirmed it was fan-made. Before the debut of the fan-made video, FX had not released any official trailers concerning the upcoming season. The first official teaser was released on August 20, 2014, entitled "Admit One".As with previous seasons, FX released a series of teaser trailers on the show's YouTube page. FX also used the marketing hashtag #WirSindAlleFreaks in the German language, and its English translation #WeAreAllFreaks.

Reception
Critical response
American Horror Story: Freak Show has received mostly positive reviews from critics. On Metacritic, it scored a 69 out of 100 based on 19 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews". The review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 77% approval rating with an average rating of 7.29/10 based on 35 reviews. The website's consensus reads, "Though it may turn off new viewers unaccustomed to its unabashed weirdness, Freak Show still brings the thrills, thanks to its reliably stylish presentation and game cast."

Awards and nominations
In its fourth season, the series was nominated for 76 awards, 21 of which were won.

Home media
Soundtrack
The opening theme for the 4th season of AHS is "Carousel" by Melanie Martinez, a song from her debut album "Cry Baby".
Every cover song performed in Freak Show was released by 20th Century Fox TV Records in online music stores following the broadcast of the episode in which it appeared, except the cover of David Bowie's "Heroes", performed by Jessica Lange in "Curtain Call."
Passage 2:
Adelaide Malanotte
Adelaide Malanotte (1785 – 31 December 1832) was an Italian operatic contralto who performed in major opera houses in Italy from 1806–1821. She is best known for creating the title role in the world premiere of Gioachino Rossini's Tancredi in 1813. After her marriage, she performed under the name Adelaide Montresor. Her son, Giovanni Battista Montresor, had a career as a tenor and impresario in the United States. From 1812 until her death 20 years later she carried on an extra-marital affair with the poet Luigi Lechi.

Life and career
Born in Verona, Malanotte made her professional opera debut in her native city in 1806. In 1808 she was heard at the Teatro Comunale di Bologna as Ariodante in Simon Mayr's Ginevra di Scozia. In 1809 she performed the role of Enrico in the world premiere of Stefano Pavesi's Elisabetta regina d'Inghilterra at the Teatro Regio di Torino. She returned to that theatre the following year to perform the role of Itaferne in the premiere of Giuseppe Nicolini's Dario Istaspe. She also appeared at the Teatro Valle in Rome in 1810 in the premiere of Nicola Antonio Manfroce's Alzira.In 1811 Malanotte made appearances at the opera house in Ravenna and sang in Alzira again at the opera house in Monza. In 1812 she sang at La Fenice in the title role of Gaetano Rossi's Teodoro for the work's world premiere. She was also heard that year in Florence. She had a major triumph at La Fenice in 1813 when she performed the title role in the world premiere of Gioachino Rossini's Tancredi. She later performed that role in Ferrara (1814), Bologna (1814), Livorno (1816), and Naples (1818). The latter performance was attended by composer Ferdinand Hérold who "did not like the timbre of her voice but thought her style, taste and intonation perfect".Malanotte sang in two more world premieres at La Fenice during her career: Pavesi's Le Danaidi romane (1816, Cajo Valerio) and Francesco Basili's L'ira d'Achille (1817, Achille). She retired from the stage in 1821. She died in Salò in 1832 at the age of 47.
Passage 3:
Today Is the Day (Lincoln Brewster album)
Today Is the Day is the fourth studio album from contemporary Christian musician Lincoln Brewster. It was released on September 23, 2008 and debuted at No. 56 on the Billboard 200. Lincoln has embedded many personal connections into the audio on this record, the foremost of which is his son's unborn heartbeat, setting the tempo in the first seconds of "The Power of Your Name".

Release
The song "Today is the Day" marked the first all-new studio single released by Brewster since 2002, in his album Amazed. Christianity Today's Russ Breimeier attributed this six-year hiatus in new material to Brewster's new family and to his responsibilities as Worship Arts pastor at Bayside Church nearby Sacramento, California. The song's lyrics were written by Paul Baloche, combining the themes of Bible verses Matthew 6 and Psalm 118. The second track, "Everywhere I Go", was written with Glenn Packiam, a member of Desperation Band.

Track listing
Personnel
Reception
Christianity Today's Russ Breimeier stated that "Today Is the Day" and "Everywhere I Go", the first two tracks of the album, were a "welcome return to form, even if the first two songs aren't the strongest way to start." He said that "Today Is the Day" was neither bad nor boring, but felt it was "on par with the average modern worship song." Russmeier compared the familiarity of "Today Is the Day" with the more experimental songs later in the eponymous album, praising Brewster's ability to experiment over his first few songs.Breimeier noted the similarities in style between Brewster's "The Arms of My Savior" and John Mayer's Gravity, and between "This Love" and Mayer's Waiting on the World to Change. He also related the "bluesy gospel-rock"  song "Give Him Praise" to Robert Randolph and the Family Band, praising it for its "thrilling and joyful" feel.
Passage 4:
Hummingbird Heartbeat
"Hummingbird Heartbeat" is a song recorded by American singer Katy Perry for her third studio album, Teenage Dream (2010). It was written by Perry, Christopher "Tricky" Stewart, Stacy Barthe, and Monte Neuble. Stewart handled the production of the song, while Kuk Harrell produced Perry's vocals. "Hummingbird Heartbeat" was inspired by Perry's boyfriend at the time, Russell Brand.Musically, it is a 1980s-styled hard rock song that contains a mixture of elements from rock and electronica. Lyrically, the song compares the feeling of being in love to the speed of a hummingbird's heartbeat. The song received generally positive reviews from music critics, many of whom labeled it as a potential single choice. Upon the release of Teenage Dream, "Hummingbird Heartbeat" charted on the lower regions of the South Korea Gaon International Chart, peaking at 124.

Background and composition
In an interview with YouTube about Teenage Dream in August 2010, Perry revealed that "Hummingbird Heartbeat" was one of the first songs she wrote for the album after she finished her Hello Katy Tour (2009). When speaking about the song, Perry said she first had the idea for the song while she was in her hometown of Santa Barbara, California:
"I was at breakfast when I saw this hummingbird, and the hummingbird was having breakfast as well..... and I don't know if you know this but hummingbirds are supposedly good luck and I was thinking 'How fast does their hearts beat?' , like 'how many beats per minute?' And using that idea for how someone makes you feel, instead of those butterflies, it makes your heart beat really, really fast.""Hummingbird Heartbeat" is a 1980s-styled hard rock song that contains a mixture of elements from rock and electronica. The song encompasses electric guitars, a piano, and synthesizers in its production. The song also features an acoustic drum kit, unlike the other songs in the album.

Reception
Upon the release of the Teenage Dream album, "Hummingbird Heartbeat" charted on the lower regions of the South Korea Gaon International Chart, peaking at 124. Tom Thorogood from MTV gave a positive review of the song, labeling it a strong single choice and calling it a: "nice companion to Teenage Dream, 'the story of the birds and the bees' is more grown up with proper guitars." Jeb Inge of The Journal called "Hummingbird Heartbeat" the strongest song on the album, while Michael Gallucci of Cleveland Scene declared the song an album highlight and compared it to "Teenage Dream", adding that they were both "top-down bangers." Gary Trust from Billboard compared "Hummingbird Heartbeat" to the first five Teenage Dream singles, and felt that if released as a single, would help Perry become the first artist with six number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. In July 2013, Robert Copsey and Lewis Corner of Digital Spy said "a full music video and worldwide push would have been more satisfactory".From February 20, 2011 to January 22, 2012, Perry embarked on the California Dreams Tour, where she performed "Hummingbird Heartbeat". For most of its shows, the song was the second track performed. It preceded "Waking Up in Vegas" and followed "Teenage Dream".

Credits and personnel
Credits are adapted from the liner notes of Teenage Dream.

Charts
Passage 5:
Eye of the Tiger
"Eye of the Tiger" is a song by American rock band Survivor. It was released as a single from their third album of the same name and was also the theme song for the 1982 film Rocky III, which was released a day before the single. The song was written by Survivor guitarist Frankie Sullivan and keyboardist Jim Peterik, and it was recorded at the request of Rocky III star, writer, and director Sylvester Stallone, after Queen denied him permission to use "Another One Bites the Dust", the song Stallone intended as the Rocky III theme. The version of the song that appears in the film is the demo version of the song. The film version also contained tiger growls, which did not appear on the album version. It features original Survivor singer Dave Bickler on lead vocals. The song is also the title song to the 1986 film of the same name. "Eye of the Tiger" is written in the key of C minor.It gained tremendous MTV and radio airplay and topped charts worldwide during 1982. In the United States, it held No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for six consecutive weeks (the band's only song to top the chart) and was the No. 2 single of 1982, behind Olivia Newton-John's "Physical". It spent fifteen consecutive weeks in the top ten, the second-longest run of 1982, behind "Hurts So Good" by John Mellencamp (which was prevented from reaching the top of the Hot 100 by "Eye of the Tiger"). This top ten run is tied with the aforementioned "Another One Bites the Dust" as well as "Physical" as the longest run in the top ten for a number one song during the entire 1980s decade. The band won an award for "Best Rock Performance by Duo or Group with Vocal" at the 25th Annual Grammy Awards. In September 1982, it also peaked at No. 1 in the United Kingdom, remaining at the top of the UK Singles Chart for four consecutive weeks. The single sold 956,000 copies in United Kingdom in 1982.It was certified platinum in August 1982 by the RIAA, signifying sales of 2 million vinyl copies. The song had sold over 4.1 million in digital downloads in the United States alone by February 2015. It was voted VH1's 63rd-greatest hard rock song.

Background
In an interview with Songfacts, co-writer Jim Peterik, who shared writing credit with Frankie Sullivan, explained the song's title.

At first, we wondered if calling it "Eye of the Tiger" was too obvious. The initial draft of the song, we started with "It's the eye of the tiger, it's the thrill of the fight, rising up to the spirit of our rival, and the last known survivor stalks his prey in the night, and it all comes down to survival." We were going to call the song "Survival". In the rhyme scheme, you can tell we had set up "rival" to rhyme with "survival". At the end of the day, we said, "Are we nuts?" That hook is so strong, and "rival" doesn't have to be a perfect rhyme with the word "tiger". We made the right choice and went with "Eye of the Tiger".

Accolades
The song was nominated for the 1982 Academy Award for Best Original Song (the only Oscar nomination for Rocky III), but it lost to "Up Where We Belong" from An Officer and a Gentleman.The band won an award for "Best Rock Performance by Duo or Group with Vocal" at the 25th Annual Grammy Awards. The song was also nominated for the 1983 Grammy Award for Song of the Year, but lost to the Willie Nelson hit "Always on My Mind".

Lawsuits
Newt Gingrich campaign
In 2012, Survivor sued Republican presidential candidate Newt Gingrich in Illinois federal court for using "Eye of the Tiger" without authorization as entrance music at his political rallies going back as far as 2009. The suit was later settled out of court.

Mitt Romney campaign
The same year Sullivan also demanded that Mitt Romney, also a Republican candidate for president, should stop using "Eye of the Tiger" at his campaign rallies. Romney agreed to drop the song from the campaign's playlists.

Mike Huckabee's campaign
Frankie Sullivan's company Rude Music filed a lawsuit in federal court in Chicago, Illinois, on November 18, 2015, against the former Governor of Arkansas and Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee's campaign organization for using "Eye of the Tiger" at a political rally without permission. The rally took place on September 8, 2015, when Kim Davis, a Kentucky county clerk, was released from jail after spending five days there for refusing to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples in Kentucky. In June 2016 it was reported by CNN that Huckabee had agreed, in a confidential, out-of-court settlement with Sullivan's Rude Music, to pay $25,000 in compensation.

Credits and personnel
Credits adapted from the album Eye of the Tiger.
Dave Bickler – lead vocals
Frankie Sullivan – lead and rhythm guitars
Jim Peterik – grand piano, electric guitar
Stephan Ellis – bass
Marc Droubay – drums

Charts
Weekly charts
Certifications
See also
Passage 6:
Heartbeat (Nina Sky song)
"Heartbeat" is a song by American twins duo Nina Sky. It was released as a second single from their third studio album Nicole and Natalie on June 14, 2012. The song is released independently through their official website. Music video for the song is released on July 27, 2012, four days before the album's release. Later, Heartbeat: Remixes, a remix EP, was also released.

Music video
Its filming as started on May 26, 2012 when they put pictures of filming on Facebook. It was directed by Adam Sauermlich for the second time (he also has directed music video for the song "Day Dreaming"). Concerning the video, the band stated: "We knew we wanted it to be more about the feeling of the song and less about the story. The colors, environment, and everyone dancing in their own element creates this surreal feeling of freedom. It’s just about listening to the rhythm inside you and letting that rhythm guide you." On July 27 the music video was released. It features the sisters prancing through fields during a party with multi-colored smoke and dancing with many people.

Track listing
Digital download"Heartbeat" - 4:20Heartbeat – The Remixes EP"Heartbeat" (AC Slater Remix) - 4:45
"Heartbeat" (Bailey Smalls Remix) - 6:22
"Heartbeat" (The Sizzaandz Remix)
Passage 7:
Lovely to See You
On the Threshold of a Dream is the fourth album by The Moody Blues, released in April 1969 on the Deram label.

Content
The album begins with a poem derived from Cogito, ergo sum and inspired by I have no mouth and I must scream accompanied by electronic sounds, and these sounds also appear at the close of the album –  Most European vinyl pressings of the album continue the sounds into the album's run-out groove, causing them to play continuously until the record player's tonearm is lifted. Tape and CD versions of the album employ a slow fade.

Release
On the Threshold of a Dream was released on 25 April 1969 in the UK and 30 May 1969 in the US. On the Threshold of a Dream provided the Moody Blues with their first British number-one album, and also boosted their American fortunes by becoming their first top-20 album there. It proved to be one of the group's more enduring records in the US, staying in the Billboard LPs chart for more than two and a half years.
The album, along with the subsequent To Our Children's Children's Children, was among the tapes carried by Apollo 15 astronaut Al Worden to the moon.In March 2006 the album was completely remastered into SACD format and repackaged with nine extra tracks. In 2008 a remaster for standard audio CD was issued with the same bonus tracks.

Track listing
Personnel
Justin Hayward – vocals, guitars, cello, Mellotron (7)
John Lodge – vocals, bass guitar, cello, double bass
Ray Thomas – vocals, harmonica, flute, tambourine, oboe, piccolo, EMS VCS 3
Graeme Edge – drums, percussion, vocals, EMS VCS 3
Mike Pinder – vocals, Mellotron, Hammond organ, piano, celloAdditional personnelTony Clarke - Producer
Pete Jackson – triangle
Phil Travers – cover artwork
Lionel Bart, David Symonds – sleeve note

Charts
Certifications
Passage 8:
Nina Sky
Nina Sky is an American musical duo consisting of identical twins Nicole and Natalie Albino. Their debut single "Move Ya Body", released from their self-titled debut album in 2004, was a success, reaching number four on the Billboard Hot 100. Their second album, Nicole & Natalie, was released in July 2012. Their third studio album, Brightest Gold, was announced for 2016 release through Tommy Boy Entertainment.

Early lives
The Albino sisters were born on March 13, 1984 to a Puerto Rican family in Queens, with Natalie being the older twin. Their parents later moved to New York City and divorced when the girls were young. The sisters grew up in Astoria, Queens in the Marine Terrace area. As a result of their stepfather working as a DJ, the twins were influenced by different types of music at an early age. By the age of 7, the twins had already written their first song, titled "Sisters". By 10, they knew that they wanted to become singers. When they were 13, they learned how to DJ and two years later were playing concerts in many clubs.
The twins' parents were very supportive of their daughters' ambitions. Their stepfather provided guitar and drum lessons and took them to auditions. They even performed occasionally on some showcases.

History
Name origin
The sisters wanted to devise a band name of their own, so they used the first two syllables of their names ("Ni" and "Na"), to come up with Nina. They then added Sky, which for them represented "independent twins".

2003–2006: Nina Sky and mixtapes
In 2003, The Jettsonz (Elijah Wells & Lionel Bermingham) introduced the girls to Cipha Sounds, a hip hop DJ under the Star Trak label owned by The Neptunes (Pharrell and Chad Hugo). Cipha Sounds was impressed when he heard the duo sing and suggested that they use the "Coolie Dance" riddim. The duo then proceeded to write "Move Ya Body" (alongside The Jettsonz Elijah Wells & Lionel Bermingham, who also produced the record), mixing Caribbean, R&B, and pop rhythms. Eventually, a demo of the song was made. The demo fell into the hands of Eddie O'Loughlin, the president of Next Plateau Entertainment (which is a division of Universal Records). O'Loughlin signed the twins to a contract and they started working on their debut album. On March 18, 2004, they had their first concert under their current name at Club Demara.
The single "Move Ya Body" was released on April 27, 2004 and reached number four on the Billboard Hot 100, and number 22 on the Billboard Year-End chart. Urban music and rhythmic top 40 stations quickly added the song to their play lists, sending the song up the charts. By July 17, "Move Ya Body" had gone to the top five on both sides of the Atlantic and had also reached the top five of a world combined R&B chart based on the US, UK, Germany, France and Australia. The song had also reached the top 50 of the Australian charts. On June 22, 2004 they released their first self-titled album, featuring Jabba and Betty Wright. The album charted #44 on the US Billboard 200 and number four on the U.S. R&B chart. Another single from the album, titled "Turnin' Me On," was released on November 30, 2004. It didn't have the same success as "Move Ya Body", but charted at #5 on Billboard's Bubbling Under Hot 100 chart and was a minor success in France.
Nina Sky continued to work and promote their music. They have contributed to the reggaeton movement with songs such as "Oye Mi Canto", and "Más Maíz" with artist and producer N.O.R.E. They were also a featured artist on Sean Paul's song "Connection" from his album The Trinity.
On October 25, 2005, they released their second mixtape called La Conexión, influenced by Latin music. The album contained the single "Ladies Night" (released April 17, 2006 and featuring Ivy Queen), released with the songs "Loving You" and "Your Time". It also contained Kassanova's remix of their single "Turnin' Me On." The album features a lot of singers: Pitbull, N.O.R.E., Notch, Richie Rivera, Mackie, and Yaga. It also included Tony Touch's hit "Play That Song," featuring Nina Sky and B-Real, released one month before the mixtape's release. In August 2006, Nina Sky were first featured on the cover of the publication The FADER, in its 39th issue. In 2006, their third mixtape "80's Babies" was released.

2007–2011: Label issues, marriages and The Other Side
Nina Sky collaborated with French singer Kenza Farah for the song "Celle Qu'Il Te Faut", and was released in both French and English versions. The video was shot in New York. Nina Sky were recording their second studio album, Starting Today. The album was originally due on July 27, 2007. Producers include Stereotypes, Bruno & Phil, Neo da Matrix, Ryan Leslie, Salaam Remi, and more. Guests include Rick Ross and others that have yet to be announced. In late 2007, Nina Sky left their label, Universal, and signed with Polo Grounds Music/J Records.
Nina Sky have also put together remixes of popular songs including J. Holiday's, "Bed," Elliott Yamin's, "Wait For You", Cassidy's, "My Drink n My 2 Step, and The-Dream's, "I Love Your Girl". They have also worked with Brooklyn MC Red Cafe on his street album The Co-Op, and The Alchemist on his song "Key to the City". In 2008, Nina Sky released two singles, for Starting Today: "Curtain Call" (featuring Rick Ross) and "On Some Bulls**t". These singles were never a big success. On December 19, 2008 Nina Sky released their first Holiday album, an EP titled Christmas.
Nina Sky appeared on Major Lazer's album, Guns Don't Kill People... Lazers Do. They were in a battle with their record company Polo Grounds Records over the release of their album Starting Today. They have said they want to be released from their contract with the label because the label does not support them. In 2010, Nicole Albino revealed she is lesbian and married female fashion designer, Erin Magee. The couple had been dating since 2009. In an interview with Inked Magazine, Magee revealed that she had her last name legally changed to Nicole's and had gotten a tattoo of the name across her right breast. With a new masculine style, the duo independently released an eight-song EP for digital download in August 2010, entitled The Other Side, which features production from DJ Yonny, Salaam Remi, Kidz in the Hall and many more. A video for the lead single, "You Ain't Got It (Funk That)" was also released. In early 2011 they worked with Creep on their song "You". On May 16, they released the music video on their official website.

2012–present: Nicole and Natalie, motherhood, new label contract and Brightest Gold
On February 2, 2012, Nina Sky released the lead single from their upcoming third studio album, Nicole and Natalie. The single, entitled "Day Dreaming", was produced by Beau Vallis. The video for the song, directed by Adam Sauermilch, was released on February 28. On June 14, the band released "Heartbeat", the second single from the new album. A month later, on July 27, the video for "Heartbeat" was released. Concerning the video, the band stated: "We knew we wanted it to be more about the feeling of the song and less about the story. The colors, environment, and everyone dancing in their own element creates this surreal feeling of freedom. It’s just about listening to the rhythm inside you and letting that rhythm guide you." On July 31 the album was released. Album had electro, house, pop and R&B elements in songs. The album failed to charts because of independent release. On October 14, 2012, Nina Sky released third and final single from their album "Comatose". In 2012, they finally signed out from recording label Polo Grounds Music/J Records.
On June 9, 2012, Nina Sky performed at OUT/LOUD Queer Women's Music Festival in Eugene, Oregon along with artists such as Krudas Cubensi, Tender Forever and Andrea Gibson. Later, on November 15, Nina Sky hosted Women in Business' fourth annual "Dress for Success" fashion show at Baruch College. On March 11, 2013, group released their sixth mixtape, titled Valentine's Day, hosted by Miss KL. On December 12, group released their new promotional single titled "Overtime" for digital download. The song was produced by Slimmy Neutron, who produced their album Nicole and Natalie, released in 2012.
On March 9, 2014, Natalie Albino gave birth to her son, Max. In the same month, Nicole released her first solo project, a mixtape album titled Currently Vol. 1 which contained her remixes to many popular songs by singers such as Madonna, Beyoncé, R. Kelly, Mariah Carey, etc. On April 17 they announced a new single via their official Facebook site. One day later, their new song "Stoners", featuring Smoke DZA was out. Single had better success than the previous one, released in 2013. It reached top 10 on New Electronic Music chart. The official music video for the single was released on July 25, via their official profiles. The extended remix for the song, made by Trayze, was also released. After the music video was released, they announced more of new music and new projects (and probably their third studio album) coming in 2015. On October 22, 2014, Nina Sky featured on Lady Bee's single "Do It All Again" from their album What Is a Jeffree?. Music video was also released.
After finishing their Euro Tour in May 2015, on June 2, their Vito Fun and Spaceplant produced electropop single titled "Forever" was released from their upcoming extended play Brightest Gold, set to release in September 2015. "We wanted something that was smooth but also had a bounce," Nina Sky told The FADER in an email. "Spaceplant finessed the verses with a modern '90s freestyle beat pattern and built up the hook just enough that song still has its original sweet vibe but if you drop it at the right time in a club, it will still go off!" twins added. EP will also be produced by Vito Fun and Spaceplant. Another tracks, including "The Brightest Gold", "Nancy", "Zero Gravity", "Champion Lover" and "Lock and Key" will also be on EP. The sample of "Champion Lover" was released on Nina Sky's official Instagram account, and is reported to be released as the second single from EP. In 2016, the twins signed a recording contract with Warner Music Group's independent recording label Tommy Boy Entertainment.

Discography
Nina Sky (2004)
The Other Side (2010)
Nicole and Natalie (2012)

See also
List of Puerto Ricans
List of twins
Passage 9:
Fischerspooner
Fischerspooner were an electroclash duo and performance troupe formed in 1998 in Chicago after meeting in school. The name is a combination of the founders' last names, Warren Fischer and Casey Spooner.

Career
Originally a duo formed by classically trained musician Warren Fischer and video-artist and experimental theater performer Casey Spooner for an impromptu rendition of their makeshift track "Indian Cab Driver" at the Astor Place Starbucks, the group grew to over 20 performers, most of whom are dancers and guest vocalists. "We started as a performance art piece about entertainment that ultimately became legitimate entertainment," said Casey Spooner, when talking about the group's origins in an April 2009 interview.

#1 (2001)
Their debut album, #1, has been released on several record labels, including International DJ Gigolo, Ministry of Sound and Capitol Records, and includes their hit singles "Sweetness", "Emerge", and a cover of Wire's "the 15th". In the final months of 2004, Fischerspooner opened up their FS Studios in New York City to the public for a few hours once a week, allowing people to meet the band and production team, as well as preview new video, music and dance projects that they were working on.

Odyssey (2005)
In 2005, Odyssey, the band's second album, was released. The album featured songs that were more structured and more accurately described as electropop than electroclash. "Odyssey was really about being on Capitol, which was this icon of classic American music, trying to embrace that cliché and find a way to embody it and infiltrate it and take it apart at the same time", says Spooner.
The lead single, "Just Let Go", featuring live drums and guitars, possessed a markedly different sound than those heard on their debut album. "Just Let Go" was featured on season 2, episode 15 of Nip/Tuck; "All We Are" was also featured on the same TV series, in season 3, episode 1. The second single, "Never Win", went on to become the album's biggest hit, and was well received in both clubs and radio. Furthermore, it was also featured in the 2006 Happy Madison movie Grandma's Boy. "A Kick in the Teeth" was rumored to be the album's third, and possibly final, single but was only pressed on 12" that included a remix by Tiefschwarz. This was followed after a duration of silence by a 12" remix of "We Need a War" with a mix by DJ Hell. Other remixes believed to have been done are of "All We Are" and "Get Confused". "All We Are" was featured as the credits track in the first episode of season two of Sweetbitter.
After the album's release, Fischerspooner toured a new, more elaborate show in Europe, but the band found themselves without the funds to tour the show fully in North America. "I was incredibly frustrated because I had worked two years on this huge record and I was only able to perform for three months", recalls Spooner, who subsequently retreated to his theatrical roots, joining experimental New York performance ensemble The Wooster Group. During this period, it was unclear whether the band would record together again; and, in May 2007, the band was released from its Capitol Records recording contract.

Entertainment (2009)
Early European gig recordings of "The Best Revenge" surfaced on the internet during summer 2007. "The Best Revenge" was released on January 14, 2008, with French label Kitsune Music. The track includes a remix package from the likes of Autokratz, Tocadisco, Alex Gopher, The Passions and Tony Senghore. Fischerspooner also released "Danse en France" as a single on the Kitsuné label.
Warren and Casey subsequently began to work on more material for a new album while Casey was performing the role of Ophelia's brother Laertes in The Wooster Group's production of Hamlet (Fischerspooner also contributed two original songs to the production).
Released in North America via the band's own label FS Studios on May 4, 2009, Entertainment is their third full-length album and was produced by Jeff Saltzman (The Killers, The Black Keys, The Sounds).
The album's cover was listed on Pitchfork's worst album covers of 2009.

Sir (2018)
The album Sir, executive-produced and co-written by Michael Stipe of R.E.M. and Boots, was released on February 16, 2018, on Ultra. The band released the first single "Have Fun Tonight" on June 19, 2017. The song "Top Brazil", was released on January 19, 2018; along with an electro-pop music video which Billboard called, "provocative." 
NPR interpreted the album as a retrospective collage of Reagan-era queer references framed in an undeniably contemporary style;
"Even the cheapskate metaphor passions in the lyrics, read as physical, often NSFW desires — 'raging motorcycle thoroughbred,' 'not opposed to humiliation,' 'denim on denim,' 'dorsal fins at night in Berlin,' 'Butterscotch Goddam,' 'dark pink Saturday night' — that are dated just enough to seem older and odder. Pairing these with layered synthesizer lines and drum-machines that invoke Reagan-era industrial and EBM reinforces nostalgic notions of sexual danger."In an interview with the album collaborators, it was said that, "[the album] explores Spooner’s 're-entry into the sexual playground now defined by technology, but also the muddled ways that feelings and self-image are present in that experience' while simultaneously examining the years of 'emotional and sexual turbulence' he experienced with his ex-partner."

Break-up
On October 30, 2019, the duo announced their breakup via Instagram.

Band members
Warren Fischer – composer
Casey Spooner – songwriter, vocals
Sam Kearney – guitar
Peanuts, aka Jeremiah Clancy – attendant to Casey, actor
Adam Crystal - keyboards
Cindy Greene – vocals
Lizzy Yoder – vocals
Ian Pai – musical director, drums
Vanessa Walters – choreographer, dancer
Stephanie Dixon – dancer

Discography
Albums
Bootleg (self-titled, with PS1 Cover Artwork) (1998)
Fischerspooner (2000) – "For Those Who Know" release
#1 or Best Album Ever, originally titled Best Album Ever, "International DJ Gigolos" release in 2001, Ministry of Sound release in 2002, Capitol Records reissue with DVD in 2003 - UK #92
Odyssey (2005) US #172, UK #110
Entertainment (2009)
Sir (2018)

Singles
Music videos
"Emerge" – Original version (2001)
"Emerge" – Skin version (2003)
"The 15th" (2003)
"Sweetness" (2003)
"Just Let Go" (2005)
"Never Win" (2005)
"Never Win" – Mirwais version (2005)
"All We Are" (made for a Coca-Cola project by Rex & Tennant) (2006)
"Get Confused" (2008)
"We Are Electric" (2009)
"The Best Revenge" (2011)
"Have Fun Tonight" (2017)
"Togetherness" (2017)
"TopBrazil" (2017)
Passage 10:
Rex (Live at the Fillmore)
Rex (Live at the Fillmore) is the thirteenth album by Keller Williams, recorded live on February 8, 2006 at the Fillmore Auditorium in Denver, Colorado.The collaborative show features Williams, Keith Moseley (of The String Cheese Incident) and Jeff Austin (of Yonder Mountain String Band) performing bluegrass versions of Grateful Dead songs.  The group performed under the name Grateful Grass.The album is available only as a digital download only, and was released on April 30, 2008.  Proceeds from the album go to the Rex Foundation.

Track listing
"One More Saturday Night" (Bob Weir)
"Mississippi Half Step Uptown Toodeloo" (Jerry Garcia, Robert Hunter)
"Eyes Of The World" (Garcia, Hunter)
"Candyman" (Garcia, Hunter)
"Loose Lucy" (Garcia, Hunter)
"Black Peter" (Garcia, Hunter)
"St. Stephen" (Garcia, Phil Lesh, Hunter)
"Casey Jones" (Garcia, Hunter)
"Brown-Eyed Women" (Garcia, Hunter)
"Bird Song" (Garcia, Hunter)
"Scarlet Begonias" > "Fire On The Mountain" (Garcia, Hunter / Mickey Hart, Hunter)

Notes
Passage 11:
Chen Peisi
Chen Peisi (Chinese: 陈佩斯; born 1 February 1954) is a Chinese sketch comedian, film and stage actor, and voice actor.  Chen's oft-time comedy partner is Zhu Shimao.

Name
Chen Peisi is the second son of famous stage and film actor Chen Qiang. Chen Qiang's first son (Chen Peisi's brother) was born in 1951 while he was overseas in the Hungarian capital Budapest performing The White-Haired Girl, so he named his first son Chen Buda (陈布达) after Buda, the western half of Budapest, as he loved the city during the visit.  When the second son was born three years later, he named the son Peisi after Pest, the eastern half of Budapest, as the Standard Chinese phonetic translation of Budapest is "Bù Dá Peì Sī".  Chen Qiang's youngest child and daughter Chen Lida (陈丽达) was also named after a part of Budapest — the Margaret Island in the Danube between Buda and Pest.

Biography
Chen was born in Changchun, Jilin on 1 February 1954. In 1966, Chen studied at The High School Affiliated to Beijing Normal University. In 1969, during the Cultural Revolution, he worked in Inner Mongolia Production and Construction Corps. In 1973, Chen worked in August First Film Studio as an actor. In 1991, Chen set up a company named Hainan Comedy Film and Television Limited Company (海南喜剧影视有限公司), then renamed it Dadao Film and Television Limited Company (大道影业有限公司). In 2000, Chen and his partner Zhu Shimao sued the China International Television Corporation over royalties from broadcasts which they won, but they were then taken off air by the parent company, China Central Television.On October 26, 2020, he returned to the CCTV stage and served as the first instructor of the variety show "Gold Medal Comedy Class" after 20 years.

Filmography
Film
Television
Variety show
Passage 12:
Song Beneath the Song
"Song Beneath the Song", also known as Grey's Anatomy: The Music Event, is the eighteenth episode of the seventh season of the American television medical drama Grey's Anatomy, and the 144th episode overall. It was named after a song initially performed by American singer Maria Taylor. Written by series creator Shonda Rhimes and directed by Tony Phelan, it premiered on ABC in the United States on March 31, 2011. It is the series's first musical episode, and features the cast performing songs previously featured within the program. It is accompanied by a soundtrack album, titled Grey's Anatomy: The Music Event, also released on March 31, 2011.
The episode revolves around Callie Torres (Sara Ramirez) and Arizona Robbins (Jessica Capshaw), just after they are involved in a vehicular collision. Various songs are performed by the cast members, as they attempt to save the life of Torres. Rhimes originally idealized the episode at the conception of the drama, while the show remained untitled. The episode opened to polarized reviews from television critics, and it was the second most-watched program of the night. "Song Beneath the Song" was ranked in several "best and worst" lists, and the soundtrack also charted on the Billboard 200.

Plot
En route to a weekend getaway, surgeons Callie Torres (Sara Ramirez) and Arizona Robbins (Jessica Capshaw) are involved in a vehicular collision, moments after Robbins proposes marriage. Torres suffers severe injuries, which endanger both her life and the life of her unborn child. She and Robbins are taken to Seattle Grace Mercy West Hospital, the institute at which they both work. Their colleagues attempt to save Torres, while Robbins and Mark Sloan (Eric Dane), the father of Torres's baby, stand by. Torres's many injuries include neurological trauma. While barely conscious, she hallucinates an uninjured version of herself standing beside her. The hallucinatory Torres begins to sing, and is gradually joined by the doctors treating her. This singing continues throughout the episode, as Torres's projection of herself attempts to reach out to Robbins.
Torres goes into cardiac arrest and is taken into an operating room she is temporarily stabilized, pending further surgery. She is moved into intensive care, while neonatal surgeon Addison Montgomery (Kate Walsh) is flown in by helicopter in case the baby has to be delivered prematurely. Robbins and Sloan argue over Torres's treatment; Robbins believes that Torres would not risk endangering the baby, but Sloan argues for saving Torres at all costs. The attending surgeons devise a treatment plan, led by trauma surgeon Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd). As they do so, Torres dreams about the moments preceding the accident. Her dream self sings to Robbins, interspersed with shots of the hospital staff singing and dancing with their own partners. Dr. Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh) suggests treating Torres with a high-risk but potentially effective cardiothoracic procedure she learned from her old mentor, Preston Burke (Isaiah Washington). Her current mentor, Teddy Altman (Kim Raver), refuses to perform it, but when Torres's condition deteriorates and she is rushed back into surgery, Hunt agrees that Yang should attempt the procedure.
When Torres again goes into cardiac arrest, Montgomery delivers her daughter at twenty-three week's gestation. The baby is initially unable to breathe, so with Sloan's support, Robbins steps in and is able to revive her. Across the operating room, Torres's condition begins to improve. Once the surgery is complete, the doctors deal with their own affairs; Sloan's former partner Lexie Grey (Chyler Leigh) commits to her new relationship with resident Jackson Avery (Jesse Williams); Lexie's sister, Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo) confesses that she was jealous of Torres's pregnancy, which prompts her husband Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey) to promise that they will have a child together; Altman tells Yang that she can no longer teach her; Sloan and Robbins bond over their shared parenthood. Later, as Robbins keeps a vigil by Torres's bedside, the hallucinatory Torres is able to rouse her recovering self. As she regains consciousness, Torres accepts Robbins's proposal.

Production
Conception
Since Grey's Anatomy began, series creator Shonda Rhimes had planned to produce a musical episode. She first discussed the idea during filming of the pilot episode, when the program was as yet untitled. Rhimes felt that seasons 6 and 7 were the right time for the crew to "try anything and everything [they had] always wanted to do," and explained that she "finally [had] the right idea and the right talent to make [a musical episode] happen." Filming began 7-and-a-half years after Rhimes initially raised the idea. The episode was shot in approximately 2 weeks. Though cast member Dempsey jokingly referred to the episode as Glee M.D., Rhimes intended for it to differ from other musical television episodes. She called it the opposite of "Once More, with Feeling," the "all-out, show-stopping," musical episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, as she aimed to "do something that was musical without being a musical."Rhimes said she had difficulty getting the network's permission. She added: "I begged the studio people. I begged the network people. I took these people to dinner and begged. I jumped out at these people in bathrooms and begged. And they all smiled politely but what they were clearly really thinking was, 'This woman is an idiot.'"Rhimes also told about delays in producing this episode: 

Explaining what the heck took us so long is too complicated to go into here. There are a lot of reasons – I was busy telling other awesome stories at Seattle Grace, [...] I was raising my tiny human, my musical talent involves oboe-playing and nothing else, the network thought it was the dumbest idea they’d ever heard of and refused to do it. 
The script was written by Rhimes in November 2010. She centered the episode around Ramirez's character, Callie, and stated that the storyline would have developed regardless of whether it involved musical performances. Sara Ramirez used the opportunity to launch their career as a singer-songwriter; an alternate version of "The Story" is included on their debut EP, released four days prior to the episode's premiere. In this episode, Mark and Arizona improve their relationship. Capshaw said, "The traumatic circumstance leads to them having a greater understanding of each other and then appreciation, and then need for each other and desire to be in each other’s lives. They come to care, I think, for one another."

Musical performances
Rhimes, executive producer Betsy Beers and director Tony Phelan selected songs that had become well-known by their use in Grey's Anatomy, and chose "the most iconic ones, the ones that best suited [their] singers, and the ones that made the most sense." The multiple cover versions include the program's theme tune, "Cosy in the Rocket" by Psapp. The primary vocalists are cast members Ramirez, McKidd, Leigh and Chandra Wilson. The soundtrack also includes "How to Save a Life" by The Fray and "Running on Sunshine" by Jesus Jackson, performed as ensemble pieces by Ramirez, McKidd, Leigh, Daniel Sunjata, Scott Foley, Ellen Pompeo, Justin Chambers, Raver, Dane, and Capshaw. Ramirez, McKidd and Wilson also perform together on Snow Patrol's "Chasing Cars." Ramirez is the lead vocalist on "The Story" by Brandi Carlile, and "Grace" by Kate Havnevik, which also features the other female cast members, including Leigh and Sarah Drew on the chorus. Capshaw duets with Ramirez on KT Tunstall's "Universe & U." Wilson is the lead vocalist on "Wait" by Get Set Go, McKidd on "How We Operate" by Gomez, and Leigh on Anna Nalick's "Breathe (2 AM)."

Leigh said that some actors were not "excited" about singing but still could participate in the episode. "There were certain ways in which the scenes were written, even if there was a song in there, that perhaps a line was spoken instead of sung," she said.A vocal coach was enlisted to help the cast. Music director Chris Horvath was recruited to arrange the selected songs for the cast. The arrangements took around two months, with vocals recorded over four days in February 2011. Horvath praised the cast's response to the episode, noting that only four performers had "serious vocal talent," while some had "barely sung in the shower" before. Those with professional singing experience include Ramirez, who won a Tony Award for their role in the musical Spamalot, and Wilson, who appeared in the Broadway production of Caroline, or Change. Cast members' reactions toward the episode varied. Pompeo initially deemed the idea "crazy," but changed her mind following the first read-through. Recurring cast member Sunjata stated that singing was "a bit out of [his] comfort zone," but found it an "interesting challenge," and McKidd deemed it "very exciting to do something that's completely out on a limb for the show."

Reception
Pre-broadcast commentary
Critical response prior to broadcast was mixed. TVLine's Michael Ausiello assessed that the episode would "either be a show-stopping triumph or a spectacular failure," with no possible middle ground. William Keck of TV Guide initially had "serious doubts," which were allayed by a visit to the set, during which he listened to the soundtrack. Keck likened it to the "much-beloved early seasons of Grey's, when music played a vital role on the show." Entertainment Weekly's Dan Snierson predicted heavy use of Auto Tune, though fellow EW writer Jennifer Armstrong was optimistic that the episode would be a success, commenting: "I have faith. I like musicals, I like Grey's. I'm rooting for this to work."

Ratings
During its original broadcast, "Song Beneath the Song" was watched by an average of 13.09 million American viewers. It attained a 4.9/13 Nielsen rating/share in the 18–49 demographic, making it the second highest-rated program of the night, behind only American Idol on the Fox network. The rating was the second-highest of the seventh season until that point, and a 30% increase from the previous episode, "This is How We Do It," which was watched by 2.4 million fewer viewers.In Canada, where the episode also aired on March 31, 2011, it was watched by 3.18 million viewers. Viewership again increased on "This is How We Do It," which attained 2.63 million viewers. However, while the preceding episode was the most-viewed scripted show for the week of its original broadcast, "Song Beneath the Song" ranked second, behind The Big Bang Theory.

Post-broadcast commentary
Following the first minutes of the drama, reactions on Twitter were polarized. Nicole Golden from TV Fanatic gave the episode 4.5 stars out of 5.0. She found that "overall, the concept worked since music really has always played a big part in the show. Some songs were more appropriate and/or better performed than others, though." She also wrote the concept worked in part because it was new but noted "the format would probably not have the same effect if used in future episodes." Even though Boston Herald's critic Mark Perigard was not a fan of the concept, saying "the Grey's Anatomy event proved how tricky it is for an established show, especially a drama, to pull off a musical episode," he did like several actors' performances. He wrote: "Chandra Wilson and Chyler Leigh (whom I never have anything good to say about) delivered some impressive vocal work. Eric Dane did some of his best acting of his career last night as an anxious father-to-be terrified he would lose his best friend." Lyneka Little of The Wall Street Journal wrote, "If Glee and ER had a baby it would be tonight’s episode of the medical drama Grey’s Anatomy titled 'Song Beneath the Song'." In his review of the episode Alan Sepinwall of HitFix wrote "Like Grey's Anatomy as a whole, some parts were unintentionally silly, others were surprisingly powerful, and it was rarely dull, at least."Patrick Dempsey admitted that the musical episode might not have been showrunner Shonda Rhimes's best idea. He explained: "It's very difficult to keep it fresh when you're doing 24 episodes a year. Shonda Rhimes has a lot of ideas, and she is in a position where she can take more chances. Sometimes that works, sometimes it does not. Last year we had the singing episode, which I think was a big mistake. But you have to try."

Accolades
In 2011, the episode was ranked #19 on the TV Guide Network special, 25 Biggest TV Blunders 2. It was included in TV Guide's list "The Worst Of 2011" saying, "Sara Ramirez has powerhouse pipes, but what this episode desperately needed was a better playlist." BuddyTV, however, ranked it #43 on its list of 2011's 50 Best TV Episodes and it also appeared on Digital Spy's shortlist of "TV's Best Musical Episodes." Supervising Music Editor Jennifer Barak and Music Editors Carli Barber and Jessica Harrison were nominated in the Best Sound Editing: Short Form Musical in Television category at the 2012 Golden Reel Awards for their work on the episode.

Soundtrack
Track listing
Chart history
Grey's Anatomy: The Music Event debuted at #24 on the Billboard 200, with 19,000 copies sold. It reached #2 on the U.S. Soundtracks chart, and was #5 on the Independent Album chart. "The Story" entered the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart at #69, and the Canadian Hot 100 at #72.
Passage 13:
Beckmann rearrangement
The Beckmann rearrangement, named after the German chemist Ernst Otto Beckmann (1853–1923), is a rearrangement of an oxime functional group to substituted amides. The rearrangement has also been successfully performed on haloimines and nitrones. Cyclic oximes and haloimines yield lactams.
The Beckmann rearrangement is often catalyzed by acid; however, other reagents have been known to promote the rearrangement. These include tosyl chloride, thionyl chloride, phosphorus pentachloride, phosphorus pentoxide, triethylamine, sodium hydroxide, trimethylsilyl iodide among others. The Beckmann fragmentation is another reaction that often competes with the rearrangement, though careful selection of promoting reagent and solvent conditions can favor the formation of one over the other, sometimes giving almost exclusively one product. The rearrangement occurs stereospecifically for ketoximes and N-chloro/N-fluoro imines, with the migrating group being anti-periplanar to the leaving group on the nitrogen. Certain conditions have been known to racemize the oxime geometry, leading to the formation of both regioisomers. The rearrangement of aldoximes occurs with stereospecificity in the gas phase and without stereospecificity in the solution phase. A few methodologies allow for the rearrangement of aldoximes to primary amides, but fragmentation commonly competes in these systems. Nitrone rearrangement also occurs without stereospecificity; the regioisomer formed has the amide nitrogen substituted with the group possessing the greatest migratory aptitude.

The archetypal Beckmann rearrangement is the conversion of cyclohexanone to caprolactam via the oxime. Caprolactam is the feedstock in the production of Nylon 6.The Beckmann solution consists of acetic acid, hydrochloric acid and acetic anhydride, and was widely used to catalyze the rearrangement.  Other acids, such as sulfuric acid, polyphosphoric acid, and hydrogen fluoride have all been used. Sulfuric acid is the most commonly used acid for commercial lactam production due to its formation of an ammonium sulfate by-product when neutralized with ammonia. Ammonium sulfate is a common agricultural fertilizer providing nitrogen and sulfur.

Reaction mechanism
The most common reaction mechanism of the Beckmann rearrangement consists generally of an alkyl migration anti-periplanar to the expulsion of a leaving group to form a nitrilium ion. This is followed by solvolysis to an imidate and then tautomerization to the amide:
This nitrilium ion has been known to be intercepted by other nucleophiles, including the leaving group from the oxime.

Presumably after the phenyl group migrates and expels the cyanate, the latter then attacks the nitrilium ion formed. In carbon tetrachloride the isocyanate can be isolated, whereas in ethanol, the urethane is formed after solvolysis of the isocyanate.
One computational study has established the mechanism accounting for solvent molecules and substituents. The rearrangement of acetone oxime in the Beckmann solution involved three acetic acid molecules and one proton (present as an oxonium ion). In the transition state leading to the iminium ion (σ-complex), the methyl group migrates to the nitrogen atom in a concerted reaction as the hydroxyl group is expelled. The oxygen atom in the hydroxyl group is stabilized by three acetic acid molecules. In the next step the electrophilic carbon atom in the nitrilium ion is attacked by water and a proton is donated back to acetic acid. In the transition state leading to the imidate, the water oxygen atom is coordinated to 4 other atoms. In the third step, an isomerization step protonates the nitrogen atom leading to the amide.

The same computation with a hydroxonium ion and 6 molecules of water has the same result, but when the migrating substituent is a phenyl group, the mechanism favors the formation of an intermediate three-membered π-complex. This π-complex is not found in the H3O+(H2O)6.

With the cyclohexanone-oxime, the relief of ring strain results in a third reaction mechanism, leading directly to the protonated caprolactam in a single concerted step without the intermediate formation of a π-complex or σ-complex.

Cyanuric chloride assisted Beckmann reaction
Beckmann rearrangement can be rendered catalytic using cyanuric chloride and zinc chloride as a co-catalyst. For example, cyclododecanone can be converted to the corresponding lactam, the monomer used in the production of Nylon 12.

The reaction mechanism for this reaction is based on a catalytic cycle with cyanuric chloride activating the hydroxyl group via a nucleophilic aromatic substitution. The reaction product is dislodged and replaced by new reactant via an intermediate Meisenheimer complex.

Beckmann fragmentation
The Beckmann fragmentation is a reaction that frequently competes with the Beckmann rearrangement. When the group α to the oxime is capable of stabilizing carbocation formation, the fragmentation becomes a viable reaction pathway. The reaction generates a nitrile and a carbocation, which is quickly intercepted to form a variety of products. The nitrile can also be hydrolyzed under reaction conditions to give carboxylic acids. Different reaction conditions can favor the fragmentation over the rearrangement.

Quaternary carbon centers promote fragmentation by stabilizing carbocation formation through hyperconjugation. As shown in the above picture, the "stable" carbocation is formed, which then loses a hydrogen to give a site of unsaturation. Oxygen and nitrogen atoms also promote fragmentation through the formation of ketones and imines respectively.
Sulfur is also capable of promoting fragmentation, albeit at a longer range than oxygen or nitrogen.

Silicon is capable of directing the fragmentation through the beta-silicon effect.
The carbocation intermediate in this reaction is intercepted by nucleophilic fluoride from diethylaminosulfur trifluoride (DAST):

Semmler–Wolff reaction
The oxime of cyclohexenone with acid forms aniline in a dehydration – aromatization reaction called the Semmler–Wolff reaction or Wolff aromatization 
The mechanism can be shown as below:

The reaction is intrinsically a special case of Beckmann rearrangement combined with neighbouring group participation.

Applications in drug synthesis
An industrial synthesis of paracetamol developed by Hoechst–Celanese involves the conversion of a methyl ketone to an acetanilide via a Beckmann rearrangement.The thermal rearrangement that occurs in the synthesis of ketamine was claimed to be a Beckmann rearrangement according to: url.

See also
Curtius rearrangement
Dakin reaction
Schmidt reaction
Stieglitz rearrangement
Lossen rearrangement
Passage 14:
Heartbeat in the Brain
Heartbeat in the Brain is a 1970 documentary film produced and directed by Amanda Feilding, an advocate of trepanation. It was filmed by Joseph Mellen.

Summary
In the film, Feilding, a 27-year-old student at the time, drills a hole in her forehead with a dentist's drill. In the documentary, surgical scenes alternate with motion studies of Feilding's pet pigeon Birdie.

Release and rediscovery
In 1978, Feilding screened the movie at the Suydam Gallery in New York. More than one audience member fainted during the climax.The 1998 documentary A Hole in the Head contains footage from Heartbeat in the Brain.The documentary, long believed to be lost, was publicly screened at the Institute of Contemporary Arts, London on 28 April 2011.
Passage 15:
Eye of the Tiger
"Eye of the Tiger" is a song by American rock band Survivor. It was released as a single from their third album of the same name and was also the theme song for the 1982 film Rocky III, which was released a day before the single. The song was written by Survivor guitarist Frankie Sullivan and keyboardist Jim Peterik, and it was recorded at the request of Rocky III star, writer, and director Sylvester Stallone, after Queen denied him permission to use "Another One Bites the Dust", the song Stallone intended as the Rocky III theme. The version of the song that appears in the film is the demo version of the song. The film version also contained tiger growls, which did not appear on the album version. It features original Survivor singer Dave Bickler on lead vocals. The song is also the title song to the 1986 film of the same name. "Eye of the Tiger" is written in the key of C minor.It gained tremendous MTV and radio airplay and topped charts worldwide during 1982. In the United States, it held No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for six consecutive weeks (the band's only song to top the chart) and was the No. 2 single of 1982, behind Olivia Newton-John's "Physical". It spent fifteen consecutive weeks in the top ten, the second-longest run of 1982, behind "Hurts So Good" by John Mellencamp (which was prevented from reaching the top of the Hot 100 by "Eye of the Tiger"). This top ten run is tied with the aforementioned "Another One Bites the Dust" as well as "Physical" as the longest run in the top ten for a number one song during the entire 1980s decade. The band won an award for "Best Rock Performance by Duo or Group with Vocal" at the 25th Annual Grammy Awards. In September 1982, it also peaked at No. 1 in the United Kingdom, remaining at the top of the UK Singles Chart for four consecutive weeks. The single sold 956,000 copies in United Kingdom in 1982.It was certified platinum in August 1982 by the RIAA, signifying sales of 2 million vinyl copies. The song had sold over 4.1 million in digital downloads in the United States alone by February 2015. It was voted VH1's 63rd-greatest hard rock song.

Background
In an interview with Songfacts, co-writer Jim Peterik, who shared writing credit with Frankie Sullivan, explained the song's title.

At first, we wondered if calling it "Eye of the Tiger" was too obvious. The initial draft of the song, we started with "It's the eye of the tiger, it's the thrill of the fight, rising up to the spirit of our rival, and the last known survivor stalks his prey in the night, and it all comes down to survival." We were going to call the song "Survival". In the rhyme scheme, you can tell we had set up "rival" to rhyme with "survival". At the end of the day, we said, "Are we nuts?" That hook is so strong, and "rival" doesn't have to be a perfect rhyme with the word "tiger". We made the right choice and went with "Eye of the Tiger".

Accolades
The song was nominated for the 1982 Academy Award for Best Original Song (the only Oscar nomination for Rocky III), but it lost to "Up Where We Belong" from An Officer and a Gentleman.The band won an award for "Best Rock Performance by Duo or Group with Vocal" at the 25th Annual Grammy Awards. The song was also nominated for the 1983 Grammy Award for Song of the Year, but lost to the Willie Nelson hit "Always on My Mind".

Lawsuits
Newt Gingrich campaign
In 2012, Survivor sued Republican presidential candidate Newt Gingrich in Illinois federal court for using "Eye of the Tiger" without authorization as entrance music at his political rallies going back as far as 2009. The suit was later settled out of court.

Mitt Romney campaign
The same year Sullivan also demanded that Mitt Romney, also a Republican candidate for president, should stop using "Eye of the Tiger" at his campaign rallies. Romney agreed to drop the song from the campaign's playlists.

Mike Huckabee's campaign
Frankie Sullivan's company Rude Music filed a lawsuit in federal court in Chicago, Illinois, on November 18, 2015, against the former Governor of Arkansas and Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee's campaign organization for using "Eye of the Tiger" at a political rally without permission. The rally took place on September 8, 2015, when Kim Davis, a Kentucky county clerk, was released from jail after spending five days there for refusing to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples in Kentucky. In June 2016 it was reported by CNN that Huckabee had agreed, in a confidential, out-of-court settlement with Sullivan's Rude Music, to pay $25,000 in compensation.

Credits and personnel
Credits adapted from the album Eye of the Tiger.
Dave Bickler – lead vocals
Frankie Sullivan – lead and rhythm guitars
Jim Peterik – grand piano, electric guitar
Stephan Ellis – bass
Marc Droubay – drums

Charts
Weekly charts
Certifications
See also