Passage 1:
Every Light in the House
"Every Light in the House" is a song written by Kent Robbins and recorded by American country music artist Trace Adkins. It was released in August 1996 as the second single from his debut album Dreamin' Out Loud. It was his first Top 5 single on the Hot Country Singles & Tracks (now Hot Country Songs) chart, where it peaked at #3.

Content
The song is a mid-tempo ballad mostly accompanied by piano and fiddle in which the narrator has recently split from his wife. He turns every light on in the house and keeps them on for her in case she wants to return to his side.

Critical reception
Deborah Evans Price, of Billboard magazine reviewed the song favorably, saying that "Adkins' deep, powerful voice does justice to the yearning in this lyric about a man who has left the lights on waiting for his lover to return." Rick Cohoon of AllMusic gave the song a favorable review, calling it a "creative approach to the age-old 'goodbye, I miss you' song." He commended Adkins' voice for "communicat[ing] pain so well" despite the singer's stature, although he considered some of the similes forced (e.g. "the backyard's bright as the crack of dawn").

Music video
The music video for this song is in black-and-white, and begins with Adkins sitting on the porch of a house with his dog after his woman left home. He then gets off the porch, and he and some workers get to work on a power generator. Scenes also feature him singing inside of the same house which also featured an alternative sub chorus "Drinkin' Bush Light til the crack of dawn" whilst a slew of empty Busch cans can be seen next to the generator, ultimately this scene and lyric was scrubbed and the original was used.

Chart performance
"Every Light in the House" debuted at number 72 on the Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart dated August 24, 1996. It charted for 21 weeks on that chart, and peaked at number 3 on the country chart dated December 14, 1996, giving Adkins the first Top 5 single of his career. In addition, it peaked at number 78 on the Billboard Hot 100, also marking his first entry on that chart.

Certifications
Parodies
On his 1998 album Did I Shave My Back for This?, country parodist Cledus T. Judd parodied the song as "Every Light in the House Is Blown".  Trace Adkins is featured in the music video when the song begins and after it ends.
Passage 2:
The Call (Mal Waldron album)
The Call is an album by American jazz pianist Mal Waldron recorded in 1971 and released on the JAPO label. The album was the first release on the short-lived European jazz label. It is Waldron's only album as a bandleader to feature him playing the electric piano.

Reception
AllMusic awarded the album 3 stars. It was included as one of the 640 albums covered in the 2013 Japanese book Obscure Sound, written by Chee Shimizu. Shimizu praised the album for its "funky psychedelic groove" and interplay between Waldron's electric piano and Jimmy Jackson's organ.

Track listing
All compositions by Mal Waldron"The Call" — 18:53
"Thoughts" — 21:50Recorded at Tonstudio Bauer in Ludwigsburg, West Germany on February 1, 1971.

Personnel
Mal Waldron — electric piano
Jimmy Jackson — organ
Eberhard Weber — electric bass
Fred Braceful — drums, percussion
Passage 3:
Duo Live in Concert
Duo Live in Concert is a live album by pianist Kenny Drew and bassist Niels-Henning Ørsted Pedersen recorded in the Netherlands in 1974 and released on the SteepleChase label.

Reception
The Allmusic review awarded the album 3 stars.

Track listing
"In Your Own Sweet Way" (Dave Brubeck) - 9:44
"My Little Suede Shoes" (Charlie Parker) - 5:26
"You Don't Know What Love Is" (Gene DePaul, Don Raye) - 6:15 Bonus track on CD
"My Shining Hour" (Harold Arlen, Johnny Mercer) - 8:45
"Viking's Blues" (Niels-Henning Ørsted Pedersen) - 5:50
"Oleo" (Sonny Rollins) - 0:36 Bonus track on CD
"Do You Know What It Means to Miss New Orleans?" (Louis Alter, Eddie DeLange) - 6:35 Bonus track on CD
"Serenity" (Kenny Drew) - 4:27
"All Blues" (Miles Davis) - 6:04 Bonus track on CD
"Trubbel" (Olle Adolphson) - 5:00
"There Is No Greater Love" (Isham Jones, Marty Symes) - 9:21
"Oleo" (Rollins) - 2:14

Personnel
Kenny Drew - piano
Niels-Henning Ørsted Pedersen - bass
Passage 4:
Live at Memory Lane
Live at Memory Lane is a live album by jazz cornetist Nat Adderley released on the Atlantic label featuring performances by Adderley's Quintet with Joe Henderson, Joe Zawinul, Victor Gaskin, and Roy McCurdy.

Reception
The Allmusic review awarded the album 2½ stars.

Track listing
All compositions by Nat Adderley except as indicated"On My Journey Now" - 4:49
"Fun" - 6:40
"In the Good Old Summertime" (George Evans, Ren Shields) - 9:49
"Lavender Woman" (Joe Zawinul) - 8:16
"Painted Desert" (Zawinul) - 8:48
"Theme" (Adderley, Zawinul) - 4:49Recorded at Memory Lane, San Francisco, CA on October 31, 1966

Personnel
Nat Adderley – cornet
Joe Henderson (tracks 2-6) - tenor saxophone
Joe Zawinul  - piano
Victor Gaskin - bass
Roy McCurdy - drums
Passage 5:
Sony Music
Sony Music Entertainment (SME), simply known as Sony Music, is an American multinational music company owned by Sony Entertainment and managed by the American umbrella division of multinational conglomerate Sony. It is the recording division half of the Sony Music Group, with the other half being the publishing division, Sony Music Publishing.Founded in 1929 as American Record Corporation, it was acquired by the Columbia Broadcasting System in 1938 and renamed Columbia Recording Corporation. In 1966, the company was reorganized to become CBS Records. Sony bought the company in 1991 and renamed it to its current name. In 2004, Sony and Bertelsmann established a 50-50 joint venture known as Sony BMG to handle the operations of Sony Music and Bertelsmann Music Group (BMG), but Sony bought out Bertelsmann's stake 4 years later and reverted to using the 1991 company name. This buyout led to labels formerly under BMG ownership, including Arista, Jive, LaFace and J Records into former BMG and currently Sony's co-flagship record label, RCA Records, in 2011 and led to the relaunch of BMG as BMG Rights Management. Arista Records would later be revived in 2018.
On July 17, 2019, Sony announced a merger of Sony Music Entertainment and music publishing arm Sony/ATV to form the Sony Music Group. The merger was completed on August 1, 2019.As of 2023, Sony Music Entertainment is the second largest of the "Big Three" record companies, behind Universal Music Group and followed by Warner Music Group. Its music publishing division Sony Music Publishing (formerly Sony/ATV) is the largest music publisher in the world.

History
1929–1938: American Record Corporation
The American Record Corporation (ARC) was founded in 1929 through a merger of several record companies. The company grew for the next several years, acquiring other brands such as the Columbia Phonograph Company, including its Okeh Records subsidiary, in 1934.

1938–1970: Columbia/CBS Records
In 1938, ARC was acquired by the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) under the guidance of chief executive William S. Paley. The company was later renamed Columbia Recording Corporation, and changed again to Columbia Records Inc. in 1947. Edward Wallerstein, who served as the head of Columbia Records since the late 1930s, helped establish the company as a leader in the record industry by spearheading the successful introduction of the LP record. Columbia's success continued through the 1950s with the launch of Epic Records in 1953 and Date Records in 1958. By 1962, the Columbia Records productions unit was operating four plants around the United States located in Los Angeles, California; Terre Haute, Indiana; Bridgeport, Connecticut; and Pitman, New Jersey.Columbia's international arm was launched in 1962 under the name "CBS Records", as the company only owned the rights to the Columbia name in North America. In 1964, the company began acquiring record companies in other countries for its CBS Records International unit and established its own UK distribution outfit with the acquisition of Oriole Records.By 1966, Columbia was renamed as CBS Records and was a separate unit of the parent company, CBS-Columbia Group. In March 1968, CBS and Sony formed CBS/Sony Records, a Japanese business joint venture.

1971–1991: CBS Records Group
In 1971, CBS Records was expanded into its own "CBS Records Group", with Clive Davis as its administrative vice president and general manager. In the 1980s to the early 1990s, the company managed several successful labels, including CBS Associated Records, which signed artists including Ozzy Osbourne, the Fabulous Thunderbirds, Electric Light Orchestra, Joan Jett, and Henry Lee Summer. In 1983, CBS expanded its music publishing business by acquiring the music publishing arm of MGM/UA Communications Co. (CBS later sold the print music arm to Columbia Pictures.) By 1987, CBS was the only "big three" American TV network to have a co-owned record company. With Sony being one of the developers behind the compact disc digital music media, a compact disc production plant was constructed in Japan under the joint venture, allowing CBS to begin supplying some of the first compact disc releases for the American market in 1983.In 1986, CBS sold its music publishing division, CBS Songs, to SBK Entertainment On November 17, 1987, Sony acquired CBS Records for US$2 billion. CBS Inc., now Paramount Global, retained the rights to the CBS name for music recordings but granted Sony a temporary license to use the CBS name. The sale was completed on January 5, 1988. CBS Corporation founded a new CBS Records in 2006, which was distributed by Sony through its RED subsidiary.In 1989, CBS Records re-entered the music publishing business by acquiring Nashville-based Tree International Publishing.

1991–2004: Birth of Sony Music Entertainment
Sony renamed the record company Sony Music Entertainment (SME) on January 1, 1991, fulfilling the terms set under the 1988 buyout, which granted only a transitional license to the CBS trademark. The CBS Associated label was renamed Epic Associated. Also on January 1, 1991, to replace the CBS label, Sony reintroduced the Columbia label worldwide, which it previously held in the United States and Canada only, after it acquired the international rights to the trademark from EMI in 1990. Japan is the only country where Sony does not have rights to the Columbia name as it is controlled by Nippon Columbia, an unrelated company. Thus, Sony Music Entertainment Japan issues labels under Sony Records. The Columbia Records trademark's rightsholder in Spain was Bertelsmann Music Group, Germany, which Sony Music subsequently subsumed via a 2004 merger, and a subsequent 2008 buyout.In 1995, Sony and Michael Jackson formed a joint venture which merged Sony's music publishing operations with Jackson's ATV Music to form Sony/ATV Music Publishing.

2004–2008: Sony BMG: Joint venture with Bertelsmann
In August 2004, Sony entered a joint venture with an equal partner Bertelsmann, by merging Sony Music and Bertelsmann Music Group, Germany, to establish Sony BMG Music Entertainment. However Sony continued to operate its Japanese music business independently from Sony BMG while BMG Japan was made part of the merger.The merger made Columbia and Epic sister labels to RCA Records, which was once owned by CBS rival, NBC. It also started the process of bringing BMG's Arista Records back under common ownership with its former parent Columbia Pictures, a Sony division since 1989, and also brought Arista founder Clive Davis back into the fold. As of 2017, Davis was still with Sony Music as a chief creative officer.

2008–present: Sony Music revival, restructuring and recent developments
On August 5, 2008, Sony Corporation of America (SCA) and Bertelsmann announced that Sony had agreed to acquire Bertelsmann's 50% stake in Sony BMG. The company completed the acquisition on October 1, 2008. On July 1, 2009, SME and IODA announced a strategic partnership to leverage worldwide online retail distribution networks and complementary technologies to support independent labels and music rights holders. In March 2010, Sony Corp partnered with The Michael Jackson Company in a contract of more than $250 million, the largest deal in recorded music history.From 2009 to 2020, Sony owned 50% of Syco Entertainment, which operates some of the world's most successful reality TV formats, including Got Talent and The X Factor with Simon Cowell. Cowell acquired Sony's stake in 2020.Doug Morris, who was head of Warner Music Group, and later Universal Music, became chairman and CEO of Sony Music Entertainment on July 1, 2011. Sony Music underwent restructuring upon Morris' arrival; with some artists switching labels while other labels were eliminated altogether.In June 2012, a consortium led by Sony/ATV acquired EMI Music Publishing, making Sony/ATV the world's largest music publisher at the time. This acquisition also reunited the common ownership of pre-1986 CBS Songs (as SBK Songs) catalog to Sony/ATV.
Rob Stringer became CEO of Sony Music Entertainment on April 1, 2017. He previously served as chairman and CEO of Columbia Records.Sony has experienced a number of changes with its international labels. In February 2012, Sony Music reportedly closed its Filipino office due to piracy, and Ivory Music and Video had been handling distribution for its catalog a few months earlier in July 2011. In early 2018, their distribution deal with Ivory expired and SME resumed its  operations in the Philippines, with the new offices still located in Ortigas Center, Pasig. In July 2013, Sony Music withdrew from the Greek market due to an economic crisis. Albums released by Sony Music in Greece from domestic and foreign artists would then be carried by Feelgood Records.In June 2017, Sony announced that by March 2018 it would be producing vinyl records in-house for the first time since ceasing its production in 1989. Reporting the decision, the BBC noted that, "Sony's move comes a few months after it equipped its Tokyo studio with a cutting lathe, used to produce the master discs needed for manufacturing vinyl records" but added that "Sony is even struggling to find older engineers who know how to make records".On February 5, 2019, a group of 1970s-era musicians including David Johansen and John Waite filed lawsuits accusing Sony Music Entertainment and UMG Recordings, Inc. of improperly refusing to let them reclaim the rights to songs they had signed away earlier in their careers. The lawsuit cites U.S. copyright law, which gives artists who formerly bargained away their rights on unfavorable terms a chance to reclaim those rights by filing termination notices after 35 years. The plaintiffs claim that Sony and UMG have "routinely and systematically" ignored hundreds of notices, having taken the position that recordings are "works made for hire" and are therefore not subject to being reclaimed.In April 2021, the Brazilian media company Grupo Globo sold its domestic record label Som Livre to Sony Music for an undisclosed amount. It was approved by the Administrative Council for Economic Defense on November 4, 2021.
In 2022, Sony Music Entertainment acquired boutique branding and merchandising agency, Ceremony of Roses(CoR). The newly acquired company would merge with Sony's existing merch division and continue under the CoR banner. The merger brought together artists like Adele, A$AP Rocky, and Lil Nas X under one merchandising house. According to Sony, the move will help expand their merchandising team and take artists' merch to the next level.In January 2023, Sony Music and Alamo Records founder Todd Moscowitz launched Santa Anna, an artist and label services company.

Sony Music UK
Sony Music UK (legal name Sony Music Entertainment UK Limited) is owned and operated by Sony Music Entertainment in the United Kingdom. Since 2014, Jason Iley has been chairman and CEO of Sony Music UK. Though owned by Sony Music Entertainment, Sony Music UK has standalone operations in the UK to promote musicians within the UK.In June 2017, it was announced that Sony would be merging its two independent distribution companies The Orchard and Red Essential.2014 saw Sony's best singles success for 33 years, with 11 number 1 singles. Sony Music artists won a total of five individual awards at the BRITs 2015, including Best Female Solo Artist for Paloma Faith, and Mark Ronson's "Uptown Funk", which picked up Best British Single. Several other of the label's artists - Foo Fighters, One Direction and Pharrell Williams - also collected awards.Sony's performance at the BRITs 2015 was the label's best in nearly 20 years, winning a total of 5 awards. In 2017, Sony Music UK celebrated the most successful BRIT Awards in the company's history, winning seven of the 11 awards.In the last three years, Sony Music UK has made key acquisitions including forming Insanity Records with Insanity Management. Craig David became the first artist to sign an album deal with Insanity Records. Sony Music UK signed Robbie Williams, who released his 11th album The Heavy Entertainment Show in 2016. Jason Iley commented that the agreement was "a once in a lifetime signing with the biggest male solo artist of our generation".Sony Music UK also incorporated the independent sales and distribution company Essential Music and Marketing - renamed to Red Essential. In August 2016, Sony Music acquired Ministry of Sound Recordings, home to London Grammar, DJ Fresh and Sigala.On April 5, 2017, two of Sony Music UK's labels won awards at the annual Music Week Awards. Columbia Records received the 'A&R of the Year' Award, while Syco were awarded the 'Record Company of the Year' Award.In 2021, Sony agreed to buy Kobalt neighboring rights division and independent distribution company AWAL, from the Kobalt Music Group for $430 million.The UK media company Somethin' Else was acquired outright by Sony Music in 2021, to form a podcast division.

Criticism and Controversies
CD price fixing
Between 1995 and 2000, music companies were found to have used illegal marketing agreements such as minimum advertised pricing to artificially inflate prices of compact discs. This was done in order to end price wars of the early 1990s among discounters such as Best Buy and Target. A settlement was reached in 2002 that included music publishers and distributors Sony Music, Warner Music, Bertelsmann Music Group, EMI Music and Universal Music. In restitution for price fixing, they agreed to pay a $67.4 million fine and distribute $75.7 million in CDs to public and non-profit groups but admitted no wrongdoing. It is estimated that customers were overcharged by nearly $500 million overall and up to $5 per album.

George Michael
The British artist, George Michael, signed to Columbia in the U.S. and Epic worldwide, advised Sony executives in 1990 that he would not be appearing in music videos to support his forthcoming album, Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1. Michael then accused Sony of not promoting the album at all. He sued in the UK in 1992, asking to be released from his contract. Sony ultimately prevailed in the courts in 1994, but Michael's contract was bought out by other labels. Some 11 years later, Michael licensed tracks to Sony for release.

Michael Jackson and Tommy Mottola
The release of Invincible was preceded by a dispute between Michael Jackson and Sony Music Entertainment. Jackson had expected the licenses to the masters of his albums to revert to him sometime in the early 2000s, after which he would be able to promote the material however he pleased and keep the profits; however, clauses in the contract set the revert date years into the future. Jackson discovered that the attorney who had represented him in the deal had also been representing Sony. He was also concerned that for years Sony had been pressuring him to sell his share in its music catalog venture; he feared that Sony might have had a conflict of interest, since if Jackson's career failed, he would have had to sell his share of the catalog at a low price. Jackson sought an early exit from his contract.In July 2002, Jackson alleged that the then-Sony Music chairman Tommy Mottola was a "devil" and "racist" who did not support his African-American artists, using them merely for his own gain. He charged that Mottola had called his colleague Irv Gotti a "fat nigger". Sony refused to renew Jackson's contract, and claimed that a $25 million promotional campaign had failed because Jackson refused to tour in the United States.

Prosecution of copyright infringement
In May 2012, Sony Music filed charges against the website IsoHunt. The plaintiff's claims in the court document filed at the Supreme Court of British Columbia read: "The IsoHunt Websites have been designed and are operated by the defendants with the sole purpose of profiting from rampant copyright infringement which defendants actively encourage, promote, authorize, induce, aid, abet, materially contribute to and commercially profit from." In February 2016, in a lawsuit filed at a California federal court, Sony Music Entertainment and its associated brands (Arista Records and LaFace Records, formerly owned by Bertelsmann Music Group) accused Belgian radio aggregator Radionomy (owned by Universal Music Group's parent Vivendi) of copyright infringement.

Kesha v. Dr. Luke and 2016 boycott
In February 2016, 100,000 people signed an online petition in less than 24 hours, calling for a boycott of Sony Music and all other Sony-affiliated businesses after rape allegations against music producer Dr. Luke were made by musical artist Kesha. Kesha asked a New York City Supreme Court to free her from her contract with Sony Music, but the court denied the request, prompting a widespread public and media response.

List of Sony Music Entertainment labels
Others
Previously affiliated labels
See also
List of Sony Music artists
Sony Music Publishing
Sony BMG
Sony BMG copy protection rootkit scandal
Sony Music Entertainment Japan
Sony Music Australia
Sony Music UK
Sony Music India
Tero Entertainment
Lists of record labels
Passage 6:
Loud Planes Fly Low
Loud Planes Fly Low is the fifth album by the American band The Rosebuds, released in 2011 on Merge Records.

Track listing
Passage 7:
I Wish Tonight Would Never End
I Wish Tonight Would Never End is an album by American country music artist George Jones. It was released in 1963 on the United Artists record label.I Wish Tonight Would Never End features two duets with Melba Montgomery, including the standard "We Must Have Been Out Of Our Minds", one of seven chart singles they would score together between 1963 and 1967.  In the book George Jones: The Life and Times of a Honky Tonk Legend, Bob Allen quotes Jones:  "Now, truthfully, Melba fit my style more than Tammy (Wynette) did.  I hate to use the word 'hard-core,' but that's  what Melba is - a down-to-earth, hard-core country singer."  The other duet with Montgomery, "Flame In My Heart", was originally recorded by Jones and Virginia Spurlock when Jones was with Mercury Records.  The songs would be included on the Jones/Montgomery duet album What's in Our Hearts, also released in 1963.
I Wish Tonight Would Never End also includes a more refined rerecording of "Seasons Of My Heart", a song Jones wrote with Darrell Edwards which had been one of his earliest recordings on the Starday label and had also been a hit for Johnny Cash (Jerry Lee Lewis and Willie Nelson would also cover the song).

Track listing
"Lonesome Life" (George Jones, George Riddle)
"This Old, Old House" (Jones, Hal Bynum)
"I Saw Me" (Jones, Jimmie Davis)
"Every Time I Look at You"
"I Wish Tonight Would Never End" (Jones, "Country" Johnny Mathis)
"Flame in My Heart" (Jones, Bernard Spurlock)
"Ain't It Funny What a Fool Will Do" (Jones, Mathis)
"There's No Justice" (Leon Payne)
"We Must Have Been Out of Our Minds" (With Melba Montgomery) (Melba Montgomery)
"I Can't Change Over Night" (Jones, Mathis)
"In the Shadow of a Lie" (Jones, Dick Overby)
"Seasons of My Heart" (Jones, Darrell Edwards)
Passage 8:
Hawk Nelson
Hawk Nelson was a Canadian rock band from Peterborough, Ontario. Formed in 2000, the band has released eight studio albums to date.

History
Early independent releases (2000–2003)
In 2000, Dunn, Clark, and Paige founded a Peterborough-based group called "SWISH", while Biro sang lead vocals for a four-piece group called the "Cheese Monkeys from Planet Nine" from Barrie, Ontario. In 2000, SWISH released their first independent album, Riding Around the Park on Mime Radio, an independent record label based in Peterborough. In January 2002, Biro moved to Peterborough to join Dunn, Clark and Paige and SWISH was renamed "Reason Being", before finally settling with the name "Hawk Nelson". In 2003, they released their second independent album, Saturday Rock Action.

Letters to the President (2004–2005)
They continued to perform and tour independently in Ontario, Canada, before being signed with Tooth & Nail Records, largely on the recommendation of Trevor McNevan, the lead singer of fellow Tooth & Nail bands Thousand Foot Krutch and FM Static. McNevan, also from Peterborough, Ontario, is credited with discovering the band. In July 2004, Hawk Nelson released their debut album Letters to the President. It was produced by Aaron Sprinkle and McNevan, who also co-wrote the album's fourteen songs. He has also appeared on some of the band's songs, as well as in their video for the song "California".
The band has achieved some success in the mainstream as well. They portrayed The Who on an episode of the NBC drama American Dreams, and they recorded a song named "Bring 'Em Out" as the theme for the 2005 motion picture Yours, Mine and Ours featuring Drake Bell. This song and another hit song "The Show" were both used on Sunday Night Football commercials. "Things We Go Through" from Letters to the President was also featured in Yours, Mine and Ours. In October 2005, the band re-released Letters to the President, with new material including their cover of The Who's "My Generation", three acoustic versions of some of their hits, and a limited edition cover. Hawk Nelson plays the party band for the film Yours, Mine and Ours (2005). On December 20, 2005, Hawk Nelson released an EP titled Bring 'Em Out.

Smile, It's the End of the World (2006–2007)
Hawk Nelson continued to gain popularity and was voted "Favorite New Artist" by CCM Magazine in their February 2006 Reader's Choice Awards.
On April 4, 2006, Hawk Nelson released Connect Sets EP with six acoustic tracks, including "Bring Em' Out", "Thing We Go Through", and "California".The band released their second studio album, Smile, It's the End of the World, on April 4, 2006. The album was also co-written by Trevor McNevan of Thousand Foot Krutch. The album won a GMA Canada Covenant Award for "Modern Rock/Alternative Album of the Year" in 2006. The album's first single, "Everything You Ever Wanted", went on to hit No. 1 for 9 weeks on the R&R Christian CHR chart, and was the fourth most-played song of 2006. The band spent the middle of 2006 touring the major Christian music festivals, and also took part in Jeremy Camp's Beyond Measure tour. Hawk Nelson released a three-track Christmas EP titled Gloria on November 21, 2006, and then toured with TobyMac's Winter Wonder Slam tour along with The Afters, Family Force 5, and Ayiesha Woods.
Bulletproof Records and producer Ralph Sall have assembled the compilation Charlotte's Web: Music Inspired By The Motion Picture featuring music by Christian artists including Hawk Nelson, Amy Grant, Selah, and Billy Ray Cyrus, which was released December 12, 2006. In addition, Bob Carlisle, Leigh Nash (Sixpence None The Richer), and The Send have all contributed exclusive tracks.
Hawk Nelson performed in 2006 on the Fringe Stage at Creation Festival Northwest, then again on the main stage at Creation in 2007. They performed sometime between July 25–28, 2007, at Creation Festival Northwest on the Main Stage, and they played again on the Fringe Stage at Creation Festival Northeast sometime between June 27–30, 2007. In 2007, (and again in 2009), Hawk Nelson performed at Winter Jam with a variety of other Christian bands, including Newsong, Jeremy Camp, Steven Curtis Chapman, Sanctus Real, and Britt Nicole. Hawk Nelson also toured with MxPx, Run Kid Run, Project 86, The Fold, and The Classic Crime on the Tooth and Nail Tour.
On March 27, 2007, Hawk Nelson released a "Double Take" which includes selections from Letters to the President and Smile It's the End of the World. They then released a holiday-themed EP titled Holiday Trio on November 20, 2007.In 2007, Aaron Tosti left the band to pursue other musical ventures and was replaced by Justin Benner.

Hawk Nelson Is My Friend and Live Life Loud (2008–2010)
The band's third full album, Hawk Nelson Is My Friend was released on April 1, 2008, and featured songs co-written by Trevor McNevan of Thousand Foot Krutch, Raine Maida of Our Lady Peace and Richard Marx.
In 2008, the band also contributed a cover of "Don't You (Forget About Me)", originally by Simple Minds, off the Don't You Forget About Me: The Covers EP. The song was also featured in back-to-school commercials for J.C. Penney. On June 8, 2010, Hawkology: Anothology of Hawk Nelson was released containing three previously released albums: Letters to the President, Smile, It's the End of the World, and Hawk Nelson Is My Friend. On June 16, 2009, Summer EP was released through digital outlets only.In January 2008, the band headlined their own tour that they called "The Green T Tour" which also featured Capital Lights and Run Kid Run.Hawk Nelson was nominated for a 2009 Grammy Award in the category for Best Recording Package, for their 2008 album Hawk Nelson Is My Friend.
On July 21, 2009, Hawk Nelson released their second single from their fourth album Live Life Loud called "The Meaning of Life", and on August 8, the song "Alive" began to be played on Christian Radio. They released their fourth album, Live Life Loud on September 22, 2009. The title song "Live Life Loud" was made available in the Rock Band store during the first week of April 2010. The song "Live Life Loud" was featured in the trailer for the movie, "Diary of a Wimpy Kid 2: Rodrick Rules".

Crazy Love and departure of Jason Dunn (2011–2012)
On February 8, 2011, Hawk Nelson released their fifth studio album titled Crazy Love, which was bundled together with a new acoustic EP titled The Light Sides.Hawk Nelson released another Christmas EP, titled Christmas EP on November 1, 2011, and it included the songs "Hark the Herald Angels Sing", "The Wassail Song", and "Up on the Housetop". On March 27, 2012, Hawk Nelson released a compilation album titled The Songs You've Already Heard: Best of Hawk Nelson.On February 1, 2012, lead vocalist Jason Dunn announced he would be leaving the band in order to pursue his solo project, Lights Go Down, recording an album tentatively titled Abandon Progress. On March 11, 2012, in Fresno, California, Dunn performed his final US show with Hawk Nelson.
Following Dunn's departure, guitarist Jonathan Steingard took over as lead vocalist and bassist Daniel Biro became the last remaining original member of the band.

Post-Dunn releases, Steingard's arrival & departure  (2012–2020)
After Dunn's departure from the band, Steingard replacing him on vocals marked a shift in the band's genre from fast-paced pop punk to softer, contemporary alternative and pop rock. On December 11, 2012, Hawk Nelson announced they had signed with Fair Trade Services. Made was released on April 2, 2013. The album's release was preceded by the release of the album's debut single on January 15, 2013, "Words", featuring Bart Millard of MercyMe, which reached No. 1 on the Christian Hot AC/CHR charts.On December 10, 2014, Hawk Nelson released the first single off an upcoming album, "Drops In the Ocean" via YouTube and made available on iTunes January 13. The album, Diamonds was announced on January 21. Diamonds is Jonathan Steingard's second album as lead vocalist for the band and first for guitarist Micah Kuiper and drummer David Niacaris. "Just Getting Started", another song from "Diamonds", was heard in several American Idol promo spots ahead of the album's release. The album was released on iTunes and other major music websites on March 17, 2015.On December 15, 2017, the band released the single, "He Still Does (Miracles)", as part of a new album, Miracles, which was released April 6, 2018, through Fair Trade Services.In May 2020, Steingard announced on his Instagram page that he had lost his faith in God and is no longer a Christian. In response, Daniel Biro made a post on the band's official Instagram page the following day thanking his bandmates and expressed continued support for them on and off the road. Soon thereafter, Steingard changed his Instagram profile to "Former lead singer Hawk Nelson".

Personnel
Past

Daniel Biro – bass guitar, backing vocals (2000–present until 2020)
Micah Kuiper – lead guitar, backing vocals (2013–present until 2020 )
David Niacaris – drums (2015–present until 2020 )
Jason Dunn – lead vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar (2000–2012)
Dave 'Davin' Clark – lead guitar, backing vocals (2000–2004)
Matt 'Matty' Paige – drums (2000–2005)
Jonathan Steingard – lead guitar, backing vocals (2004–2012), lead vocals, rhythm guitar, keyboards, piano, synthesizers (2012–2020)
Gideon 'Gidz' Courtney – drums (late 2005)
Aaron 'Skwid' Tosti – drums (2005–2008)
Justin Benner – drums (2008–2014)Timeline

Discography
Albums
As SWISH

2000: Riding Around the Park (Independent)As Hawk Nelson

2003: Saturday Rock Action (Independent)
2004: Letters to the President (Tooth & Nail Records)
2006: Smile, It's the End of the World (Tooth & Nail Records)
2008: Hawk Nelson Is My Friend (BEC Recordings)
2009: Live Life Loud (BEC Recordings)
2011: Crazy Love (BEC Recordings)
2013: Made (Fair Trade Services)
2015: Diamonds (Fair Trade Services)
2018: Miracles (Fair Trade Services)

Awards
GMA Canada Covenant Awards

2006 Modern Rock/Alternative Album of the Year: Smile, It's the End of the World
2007 two nominations: Modern Rock/Alternative Song of the Year: "The One Thing I Have Left", and Recorded Song of the Year: "Everything You Ever Wanted"
2008 two nominations: Group of the Year, and Modern Rock/Alternative Album of the Year: Hawk Nelson Is My Friend
2009 Modern Rock/Alternative Song of the Year: "Live Life Loud"
2010 two awards: Modern Rock/Alternative Album of the Year: Live Life Loud!, and Modern Rock/Alternative Song of the Year: "Never Enough"
2011 two awards: Rock Album of the Year: Crazy Love, and Rock Song of the Year: "Crazy Love"GMA Dove Awards

2007 nominee, Recorded Music Packaging: Smile, It's the End of the World
2009 nominee, Recorded Music Packaging: Hawk Nelson Is My Friend
2010 nominee, Recorded Music Packaging: Live Life Loud
2012 nominee, Rock Recorded Song of the Year: You Love Is A Mystery
2012 nominee, Rock/Contemporary Recorded Song of the Year: Crazy Love
2012 nominee, Rock/Contemporary Album of the Year: Crazy Love
2012 nominee, Short Form Music Video of the Year: Crazy LoveGolden Ear Music Awards (Ignite Your Faith Magazine)

2006 two wins: Best Band, and Best Male Vocalist: Jason DunnGrammy Awards

2009 nominee, Best Recording Package: Hawk Nelson Is My FriendJuno Awards

2007 nominee, Contemporary Christian/Gospel Album of the Year: Smile, It's the End of the World
2012 nominee, Contemporary Christian/Gospel Album of the Year: Crazy LoveVH1

2006, No. 1 spot on VH1's top 20 video countdown with "The One Thing I Have Left" music video.
Passage 9:
A Perfect Sky
"A Perfect Sky" is Bonnie Pink's twenty-fifth single and first from the album Thinking Out Loud. The single was released under the Warner Music Japan label on June 28, 2006.

Track listing
A Perfect Sky
Free
Interlude -Siesta-
A Perfect Sky (Instrumental)


== Oricon Sales Chart ==
Passage 10:
Quartets: Live at the Village Vanguard
Quartets: Live at the Village Vanguard is a live album by the American jazz saxophonist Joe Lovano recorded at the Village Vanguard in 1994 and 1995 and released on the Blue Note label.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow stated: "Named Jazz Album of the Year by readers of Downbeat Magazine, this double CD features tenor saxophonist Joe Lovano during two appearances at the Village Vanguard recorded ten months apart... In both cases, Joe Lovano is heard in prime form, making this an easily recommended two-fer".
Don Heckman of the Los Angeles Times commented, "the two CDs in this new release are demonstrations in just how good he can be, regardless of the music’s style. Recorded live in March 1994 and January 1995 with two very different ensembles, they showcase contrasting aspects of Lovano’s improvisational strengths."

Track listing
All compositions by Joe Lovano except as indicated
Disc One"Fort Worth" [Set 2] - 10:01
"Birds of Springtime Gone By" [Set 1] - 6:43
"I Can't Get Started" [Set 1] (Vernon Duke, Ira Gershwin) - 8:32
"Uprising" [Set 3] -  7:35
"Sail Away" [Set 2] (Tom Harrell) - 10:51
"Blues Not to Lose" [Set 3] (Eddie Boyd) - 9:19
"Song and Dance" [Set 2] - 8:27Disc Two"Lonnie's Lament" [Set 2] (John Coltrane) - 11:12
"Reflections" [Set 2] (Thelonious Monk) - 9:51
"Little Willie Leaps" [Set 1*] (Miles Davis) - 9:22
"This Is All I Ask" [Set 2] (Gordon Jenkins) - 9:18
"26-2" [Set 2] (Coltrane) - 9:42
"Duke Ellington's Sound of Love" [Set 3] (Charles Mingus) - 6:15
"Sounds of Joy" [Set 1] - 10:19Recorded at the Village Vanguard in New York City on March 12, 1994 (Disc One) and January 20 & *22, 1995 (Disc Two)

Personnel
Joe Lovano – tenor saxophone, soprano saxophone, C melody saxophone
Tom Harrell - trumpet, flugelhorn (Disc One)
Mulgrew Miller – piano (Disc Two)
Anthony Cox (Disc One), Christian McBride (Disc Two) – bass
Billy Hart (Disc One), Lewis Nash (Disc Two) – drums
Passage 11:
Jazz Portraits: Mingus in Wonderland
Jazz Portraits: Mingus in Wonderland is a live album by jazz bassist and composer Charles Mingus, recorded in 1959 and released on the United Artists label in September of that year. The original release was titled Jazz Portraits, and a subsequent edition was titled Wonderland, leading to the combined title of Jazz Portraits: Mingus in Wonderland.

Composition
Both "Alice's Wonderland" and "Nostalgia in Times Square" were originally written for the 1959 John Cassavetes film Shadows as part of a full soundtrack, but Mingus’ music was almost entirely replaced for the final version of the film. A partial reconstruction of the soundtrack was released in 2015 as the compilation album Shadows.
A reworked version of "Nostalgia in Times Square," with vocals by Honi Gordon, was recorded during Mingus' 1959  Mingus Dynasty sessions and included on reissues of that album as a bonus track titled "Strollin'".
Though never a major part of Mingus’ repertoire, "Nostalgia in Times Square" has since become a jazz standard, widely performed and recorded by other musicians. Notably, jazz fusion trio Medeski Martin & Wood have long performed the song, usually as part of a medley with Sun Ra’s “Angel Race.”

Reception
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow called the music "advanced bop that looks toward the upcoming innovations of the avant-garde and is frequently quite exciting".

Track listing
All compositions by Charles Mingus except as indicated"Nostalgia in Times Square" – 12:18
"I Can't Get Started" (Vernon Duke, Ira Gershwin) – 10:08
"No Private Income Blues" – 12:51
"Alice's Wonderland" – 8:54Recorded at the Nonagon Art Gallery in New York City on January 16, 1959

Personnel
Charles Mingus – bass
John Handy – alto saxophone
Booker Ervin – tenor saxophone (tracks 1, 3 & 4)
Richard Wyands – piano
Dannie Richmond – drums
Passage 12:
Liliana Mumy
Liliana Berry Davis Mumy (; born April 16, 1994) is an American actress. Between 2002 and 2006, she appeared as Jessica Baker in Cheaper by the Dozen and its sequel, as well as  Lucy Miller in the second and third films of The Santa Clause trilogy.
In animation, Mumy performed the voice of Mertle Edmonds in the Lilo & Stitch franchise as well as Twinkle in Higglytown Heroes. For Cartoon Network, she has voiced Panini in Chowder. For Nickelodeon, she has voiced Human Kimberly in Catscratch, Roxy in the Nickelodeon revival of Winx Club, and Leni Loud in The Loud House.

Personal life
Mumy was born in San Marcos, California, the daughter of Eileen Joy Mumy (née Davis), a childbirth educator, and former child star Bill Mumy. She is the younger sister of former child actor Seth Mumy. She graduated from Laurel Hall School in North Hollywood, California and attended Campbell Hall School. She left there and graduated from Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California in 2012.
Liliana appeared with her father, Bill Mumy, in the Twilight Zone revival series' episode "It's Still a Good Life".

Career
Mumy has appeared in several motion pictures. Her most notable film appearances are in Cheaper by the Dozen, Cheaper by the Dozen 2, The Santa Clause 2, as well as The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause. In 2002, Mumy played Audrey Fremont, the daughter of her father Bill's character Anthony, in a sequel to the classic The Twilight Zone episode "It's a Good Life" called "It's Still a Good Life".
Mumy provided the voice of Mertle Edmonds (Lilo Pelekai's rival) in Stitch! The Movie, Lilo & Stitch: The Series, Lilo & Stitch 2: Stitch Has a Glitch, and Leroy & Stitch, and voicing a character with a smaller role on American Dragon: Jake Long as Haley's rival at school. She is also the voice of Twinkle on Higglytown Heroes and the voice of Human Kimberly on Nickelodeon's Catscratch. Lesser roles included TV appearances playing Rachael/Rachel in six episodes on My Wife and Kids from 2002 to 2004 as well as young Donna on That '70s Show and guest starring in Scrubs as a girl at her birthday party (whose face J.D. daydreams of shoving into her cake). She also voiced Panini in the cartoon Chowder, airing on Cartoon Network and played Lula in The Cleaner in 2008. She also voiced a feisty, fashionable, pink-loving, golden retriever puppy named Rosebud in the Disney movies Snow Buddies, Space Buddies, and Santa Buddies. In June 2012, Mumy started voice work as 'Beth' in Bravest Warriors, an animated series created by Pendleton Ward, produced by Frederator Studios for their channel, Cartoon Hangover, a premium content partner of YouTube. Mumy also provided the voice of Roxy on Nickelodeon's Winx Club and Leni Loud on Nickelodeon's The Loud House.

Filmography
Television
Films
Passage 13:
Raw Energy Records
Raw Energy Records was a Canadian independent record label, based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The music label was established in the late 1980s by founder entrepreneur and music journalist Graeme Boyce, initially to distribute the debut EP by King Apparatus, Loud Party. Prior to launching Raw Energy, Boyce was a staff writer for RPM.The label subsequently released King Apparatus' full-length debut album in 1990; after selling over 5,000 copies of the album in just a handful of record stores in downtown Toronto, the label secured a national distribution deal with A&M Records. The company expanded over the years, and launched new divisions to manage growth, such as Raw Energy Promotions and Raw Energy Radio.
Canadian artists who released Raw Energy albums included King Apparatus, King Cobb Steelie, Dinner Is Ruined, Random Killing, Trunk, Marilyn's Vitamins, Five Knuckle Chuckle, Three Impotent Males, Out of Hand, Cut Off, Double Standard, DNS, and Sectorseven. Raw Energy also released product from two U.S. acts, The Toasters and Rosie O'Shea.  Grouped into the alternative genre, augmenting its roster of punk and ska, the label released a rap album from Top Secret and a noise album from Space City USA.

Discography
Compilation albums
In 1993, Raw Energy released its first compilation, simply titled Raw Energy. Because of the cartoon drawing used on the cover, it quickly took on the name On the Road within the hardcore community. Raw Energy played on this to release a series of "On the Road" compilations, featuring unsigned and emerging Canadian punk, hardcore and alternative rock bands du jour. Some would end up signing with Raw Energy.
The series of "On the Road" compilations includes:

Raw Energy (aka On the Road, 1993)
On the Road Again (1994)
Dead on the Road: Songs Without Keyboards (1994)
On the Road to New York City (1994)
On the Road to Amsterdam (1999)
On the Road... with a Snowboard (1999)Other compilations include Twentybandcomp, co-released with Shock Records in Australia.

Track listing
The Dinner Is Ruined, "Stuck Pig"
Groovy Religion, "Wanda"
hHead, "Collide"
King Cobb Steelie, "One's a Heifer"
The Imagineers, "This is Nevada Calling"
Jale, "I Lied"
Cottage Industry, "Theme from Superstar"
Yeti, "The Crossing"
Wooden Stars, "Hate Everyone"
Wining Dining and Drilling, "Captain's a Wreck"
Deadbeat Backbone, "Til I'm Gone"
Eric's Trip, "Understanding"
Change of Heart, "Stress Monkey"

See also
List of record labels
Passage 14:
Vision Towards Essence
Vision Towards Essence is a live album of solo piano by Muhal Richard Abrams released on the Pi Recordings label in 2007.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Thom Jurek states "This is indeed one of the most important records ever released by this great man". The Penguin Guide to Jazz wrote that "Part 1" "has tentative moments, areas of slow transition which are slightly dull on first hearing though their logic becomes clearer over time. The other two parts are flawless".

Track listing
"Part 1" - 20:06
"Part 2" - 18:23
"Part 3" - 20:16All compositions by Muhal Richard Abrams
Recorded live at the Guelph Jazz Festival, Guelph, Canada on September 11, 1998.

Personnel
Muhal Richard Abrams - piano
Passage 15:
Live Life Loud
Live Life Loud (stylized as LIVE*LIFE*LOUD!) is the fourth studio album from Christian rock band Hawk Nelson. It was released on September 22, 2009. According to Daniel Biro, the dog on the cover is lead vocalist Jason Dunn's dog Murphy. The album was packaged with a pair of 3D glasses that are needed to be worn to view the album's CD booklet which is printed in 3D.
The album peaked at No. 54 the first week on Billboard 200 and at No. 3 on The Billboard Christian Albums charts.

Concept and musical style
Bassist Daniel Biro describes the album as "really about encouraging our fans to do just that. To live your life loud, to embrace all that life brings your way and experience every moment of it to the fullest extent. This is the message we want our fans to come away with after they hear the album."The album is the first time that the band wrote songs together by just jamming as a band, although the band collaborated with Chris Stevens, Matthew Gerrard, TobyMac, Trevor McNevan, and Bart Millard on the record.

Track listing
Personnel
Jason Dunn - lead vocals
Daniel Biro - bass guitar, backing vocals
Jonathan Steingard - guitar, backing vocals
Justin Benner - drums

Awards
In 2010, the album was nominated for a Dove Award for Recorded Music Packaging of the Year at the 41st GMA Dove Awards. The title song was also nominated for Short Form Music Video of the Year.
Passage 16:
Ornament Records
Ornament Records is a German record label set up in 1972 by Siegfried A. "Ziggy" Christmann. It initially specialised in issuing live recordings of blues artists who were touring Germany. Soon the label started releasing jazz and German (especially Moselle Franconian) folk music as well.
Artists who were recorded for the label or in some cases whose US recordings were released on the label included Doctor Ross, Willie Mabon, John Lee Hooker, Blind John Davis, Jim Kahr Group, Champion Jack Dupree, Sunnyland Slim, Tommy Tucker, Big Joe Williams, Fernest Arceneaux, Louisiana Red, Al Rapone, Katie Webster, Big Jay McNeely, Detroit Gary Wiggins & Chris Rannenberg as the International Blues Duo and Black Cat Bone.Almost all of the label's original blues LPs were—some with additional bonus tracks—re-released on CD on the CMA label in 1991. Some of these were released again on the Chrisly label in 2000 under the Ornament Blues Masters series.Ornament also had two short-lived blues sub-labels: Chrischaa and ESCEHA Schallplatten. Both of these folded in June 1978.

See also
List of record labels
Passage 17:
Love, Life and Feelings
Love, Life and Feelings is the 21st studio album from Shirley Bassey, released in 1976 on the United Artists label.
The album peaked at #13 in the UK album chart, and charted at #149 in the Billboard 200. Love, Life and Feelings was awarded silver record status by the British Phonographic Industry, with sales of more than 60,000 copies.
Features covers of contemporary pop songs from the late 1960s and early 1970s, such as "Alone Again (Naturally)" the 1972 UK #3 single from Gilbert O'Sullivan and "The Way I Want to Touch You" from Captain & Tennille  alongside "What I Did for Love", from the musical A Chorus Line written by Marvin Hamlisch.
Singles released from the album include "Natali", an Italian song with lyrics by Norman Newell, which was issued with the non-album track "Runaway" ("E poi..." Andrea Lovecchio, Shel Shapiro) as the B-side, the song was recorded in Italian and English by the Italian singer Mina. This track has of 2011 not been re-issued on CD.
Love, Life and Feelings was issued originally on 33.3rpm vinyl and audio cassette with a sleeve cover photography by Richard Avedon. The album was re-issued on a double CD set in 2006, by BGO Records, together with the 1974 album Nobody Does It Like Me.

Track listing
Side One.

"What I Did for Love" (Edward Kleban, Marvin Hamlisch) - 3.47
"The Hungry Years" (Howard Greenfield, Neil Sedaka) - 4.36
"Born to Lose" (Sergio Bardotti, Dario Bembo, Norman Newell) - 5:46
"Everything That Touches You" (Michael Kamen) - 3.22
"Isn't It a Shame (Randy Edelman) - 3.47
"Midnight Blue" (Melissa Manchester, Carole Bayer Sager) - 4.11Side Two.

"The Way I Want to Touch You" (Toni Tennille) - 3.17
"Natali" (Balsamo, Norman Newell) - 5.02
"You've Made Me So Very Happy" (Berry Gordy, Brenda Holloway, Patrice Holloway, Frank Wilson) - 3.41
"Alone Again (Naturally)" (Gilbert O'Sullivan) - 4.54
"Feelings" (Morris Albert) - 4.46
"If I Never Sing Another Song"  (Don Black, Udo Jürgens) - 4.04

Personnel
Shirley Bassey – vocal
Martin Davis - producer
Arthur Greenslade - arranger, conductor
Martin Rushent - engineer
Passage 18:
Live at the Lighthouse (Elvin Jones album)
Live at the Lighthouse is a live album by jazz drummer Elvin Jones featuring performances recorded in 1972 at the Lighthouse Café in California, and released on the Blue Note label. The album was originally released as a double LP and subsequently released on two CDs with additional material. It features Jones in a quartet with saxophonists Dave Liebman and Steve Grossman, and bassist Gene Perla.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 4 stars calling it "Exciting and adventurous music that stretches the boundaries of modal hard bop jazz".

Track listing
Volume One"Fancy Free" (Donald Byrd) - 21:06
"New Breed" (Dave Liebman) - 12:06
"Small One" (Liebman) - 7:09 Bonus track on CD reissue
"Sambra" (Gene Perla) - 13:12
"My Ship" (Ira Gershwin, Kurt Weill) - 8:52
"Taurus People" (Farouq Daweud) - 6:17 Bonus track on CD reissue
"For All Those Other Times / Announcement" (Perla) - 5:40 Bonus track on CD reissueVolume Two"Happy Birthday Greeting" - 0:50
"Sweet Mama" (Perla) - 15:30
"I'm a Fool to Want You" (Joel Herron, Frank Sinatra, Jack Wolf) - 11:37 Bonus track on CD reissue
"The Children, Save the Children" (Don Garcia) - 7:58
"Brite Piece" (Liebman) - 13:19 Bonus track on CD reissue
"The Children's Merry-Go-Round March" (Elvin Jones) - 28:30 Bonus track on CD reissue

Personnel
Elvin Jones - drums
Steve Grossman - tenor saxophone, soprano saxophone
Dave Liebman - tenor saxophone, soprano saxophone, flute
Gene Perla - bass
Passage 19:
Eddie Cochran On The Air
This article is the discography of American rock and roll musician Eddie Cochran.

Albums
Studio albums
Live albums
Compilation albums
EPs
Singles
Charting reissues
Notes
Passage 20:
This Christmas (Patti LaBelle album)
This Christmas is the first holiday album released by American singer Patti LaBelle. It was released by MCA Records on October 30, 1990, in the United States. The album was released while LaBelle was working on a follow-up to her previous album, Be Yourself (1989). It included original compositions such as "'Twas Love", which LaBelle shot a video for, and "Nothing Could Be Better", which was sung live by LaBelle during an appearance on the television show, A Different World. This Christmas would be re-released in 1995 with all new artwork and a new bonus track, "Angel Man". The 1995 re-release was later reissued in 2004 under the 20th Century Masters: The Christmas Collection line, labeled The Best of Patti LaBelle.

Critical reception
Allmusic editor Jose F. Promis called This Christmas a "likeable collection of easygoing holiday confections. The songs prove quite endearing, but in some cases are marred by somewhat dated production [...] Oftentimes, holiday albums such as this – composed of new, untraditional recordings – are somewhat tepid, but that's thankfully not the case here. Despite a few dull moments and some lackluster production, this is quite an enjoyable and endearing holiday set, and will no doubt please the legendary singer's many fans."

Track listing
Notes

^[A]  denotes associate producer
^[B]  denotes co-producer

Charts