Passage 1:
Sant Martí d'Empúries
Sant Martí d'Empúries is an entity of the town of L'Escala. It is located next to the ruins of Empúries or Empòrion. Ancient Greeks established the settlement in the 6th century BC. It was the county seat until 1079 Empúries moved to Castelló d'Empúries place less exposed to attack.
Sant Martí d'Empúries is a staging point on the GR 92 long distance footpath, which roughly follows the length of the Mediterranean coast of Spain. Stage 5, to the north, takes a route behind the coast to the El Cortalet pond in the Parc Natural dels Aiguamolls de l'Empordà, a distance of 20.2 kilometres (12.6 mi). Stage 6, to the south, follows the coast to l'Escala and then takes an inland route across the Montgri Massif to reach the next staging point of Torroella de Montgrí, a distance of 20.0 kilometres (12.4 mi).

History
It was an inhabited place since the arrival of Greeks from Massalia, actual Marseille (France) in the 6th century BC. Greeks established a settlement there called it, Kypsela (Greek: Κύψελα). At the ancient times there is a possibility that there was a temple of Artemis on the island.It was Christianized by Saint Feliu, an African martyr who died in 304 in Girona. He was bishop between 516 and 693. Charlemagne mentions Ermenguer as first Count of Empúries in 812.
Passage 2:
British nationality law
The primary law governing nationality in the United Kingdom is the British Nationality Act 1981, which came into force on 1 January 1983. Regulations apply to the British Islands, which include the UK itself and the Crown dependencies, and the 14 British Overseas Territories.
The six classes of British nationality each have varying degrees of civil and political rights, due to the UK's historical status as a colonial empire. The principal class of British nationality is British citizenship, which is associated with the British Islands. British nationals associated with an overseas territory are British Overseas Territories citizens (BOTCs). Almost all BOTCs (except for those from Akrotiri and Dhekelia) have also been British citizens since 2002. Individuals connected with former British colonies may hold residual forms of British nationality, which do not confer an automatic right of abode in the United Kingdom and generally may no longer be acquired. These residual nationalities are the statuses of British Overseas citizen, British subject, British National (Overseas), and British protected person.
All persons born in the British Islands before 1 January 1983 were automatically granted citizenship by birth regardless of the nationalities of their parents. Individuals born in those territories since that date only receive citizenship at birth if at least the mother is a British citizen or holds settled status. Foreign nationals may naturalise as British citizens after meeting a minimum residence requirement (usually five years) and acquiring settled status.
The United Kingdom was previously a member state of the European Union (EU) and British citizens held full EU citizenship. They had held automatic and permanent permission to live and work in any EU or European Free Trade Association (EFTA) country and were able to vote in elections to the European Parliament. Despite the UK's withdrawal from the union in 2020, British citizens continue to hold permanent permission to work and reside in the Republic of Ireland as part of the Common Travel Area.

Terminology
The distinction between the meaning of the terms citizenship and nationality is not always clear in the English language and differs by country. Generally, nationality refers to a person's legal belonging to a sovereign state and is the common term used in international treaties when addressing members of a country, while citizenship usually means the set of rights and duties a person has in that nation. This distinction is clearly defined in many non-English speaking countries but not in the Anglosphere. Historically, an individual associated with Britain was neither a national nor a citizen, but a British subject. British citizenship was not created until passage of the British Nationality Act 1981. This Act defined six types of nationality with varying degrees of civil and political rights, dependent on a person's connections with the United Kingdom, overseas territories, or former colonies. British citizens hold their status because of a close connection with the British Islands, usually through their own (or parents' or grandparents') birth, adoption, naturalisation, or registration as citizens of the UK.

Types of British nationality
There are six types of British nationality: any person who is a British citizen, British Overseas Territories citizen (BOTC), British Overseas citizen (BOC), British National (Overseas) (BN(O)), British subject, or British protected person is a British national. Of these statuses, only British citizenship grants automatic right of abode in the United Kingdom. British Overseas Territories are areas outside of the British Islands where the UK holds sovereignty. Since 2002, nearly all BOTCs also hold British citizenship, except for those associated with Akrotiri and Dhekelia.The other four categories are residual nationality classes that generally cannot be acquired. BOCs are people connected with former British colonies who have no close ties to the UK or overseas territories. BN(O)s are Hong Kong residents who voluntarily registered for this status before the territory's transfer to China in 1997. British subjects hold their status through a connection either to former  British India or to what is now the Republic of Ireland as they existed before 1949. British protected persons come from areas controlled by the British Empire but were never formally incorporated as Crown territory; this includes protectorates, protected states, mandated territories, and Indian princely states.

History
Development from feudal allegiance
Before the concept of nationality was codified in legislation, inhabitants of English communities owed allegiance to their feudal lords, who were themselves vassals of the monarch. This system of loyalty, indirectly owed to the monarch personally, developed into a general establishment of subjecthood to the Crown. Calvin's Case in 1608 established the principle of jus soli, that all those who were born within Crown dominions were natural-born subjects. After passage of the Acts of Union 1707, English and Scottish subjects became British subjects. Similarly, the Kingdom of Ireland was merged with the Kingdom of Great Britain to form the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1801. Natural-born subjects were considered to owe perpetual allegiance to the Crown and could not voluntarily renounce British subject status until this was first permitted in 1870.Prior to 1708, foreigners could only be naturalised through Acts of Parliament. Protestants fleeing religious persecution in mainland Europe were allowed to naturalise as subjects in 1708, but this was quickly repealed in 1711 in response to the number of migrants exercising that ability. A standard administrative process was not introduced until 1844, when applicants were first able to acquire naturalisation grants from the Home Office. Despite the creation of this pathway, personalised naturalising legislation continued to be enacted until 1975.The monarch could personally make any individual a subject by royal prerogative. By this method, a foreigner became a denizen – although they were no longer considered an alien, they could not pass subject status to their children by descent and were barred from Crown service and public office. This mechanism was no longer used after 1873.Until the mid-19th century, it was unclear whether nationality regulations in the United Kingdom were applicable elsewhere in the British Empire. Individual colonies had each developed their own procedures and requirements for naturalisation, granting subject status at the discretion of the local governments. In 1847, Parliament formalised a clear distinction between subjects who were naturalised in the UK and those who became British subjects in other territories. Individuals who naturalised in the UK were deemed to have received the status by imperial naturalisation, which was valid throughout the Empire. Those naturalising in colonies were said to have gone through local naturalisation and were given subject status valid only within the relevant territory; a subject who locally naturalised in Canada was a British subject there, but not in England or New Zealand. When travelling outside of the Empire, British subjects who were locally naturalised in a colony were still entitled to imperial protection.Certain territories that came under British jurisdiction were not formally incorporated as Crown territory proper. These included protectorates, protected states, mandated territories, and Indian princely states. Because domestic law treated these areas as foreign territory, birth in one of these areas did not automatically confer British subject status. Instead, most people associated with these territories were designated as British protected persons. British protected persons were treated as aliens in the United Kingdom, but both British subjects and protected persons could be issued British passports. Protected persons could not travel to the UK without first requesting permission, but were afforded the same consular protection as British subjects when travelling outside of the Empire.

Imperial common code
Parliament brought regulations for British subject status into codified statute law for the first time with passage of the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914. British subject status was standardised as a common nationality across the Empire. Dominions that adopted Part II of this Act as part of local legislation were authorised to grant subject status to aliens by imperial naturalisation.The 1914 regulations codified the doctrine of coverture into imperial nationality law, where a woman's consent to marry a foreigner was also assumed to be intent to denaturalise; British women who married foreign men automatically lost their British nationality. There were two exceptions to this: a wife married to a husband who lost his British subject status was able to retain British nationality by declaration, and a British-born widow or divorcée who had lost her British nationality through marriage could reacquire that status without meeting residence requirements after the dissolution or termination of her marriage.By the end of the First World War, the Dominions had exercised increasing levels of autonomy in managing their own affairs and each by then had developed a distinct national identity. Britain formally recognised this at the 1926 Imperial Conference, jointly issuing the Balfour Declaration with all the Dominion heads of government, which stated that the United Kingdom and Dominions were autonomous and equal to each other within the British Commonwealth of Nations. Full legislative independence was granted to the Dominions with passage of the Statute of Westminster 1931.Women's rights groups throughout the Empire pressured the imperial government during this time to amend nationality regulations that tied a married woman's status to that of her husband. Because the government could no longer enforce legislative supremacy over the Dominions after 1931 and wanted to maintain a strong constitutional link to them through the common nationality code, it was unwilling to make major changes without unanimous agreement among the Dominions on this issue, which it did not have. Imperial legal uniformity was nevertheless eroded during the 1930s; New Zealand and Australia amended their laws in 1935 and 1936 to allow women denaturalised by marriage to retain their rights as British subjects, and Ireland changed its regulations in 1935 to cause no change to a woman's nationality after her marriage.

Irish independence
Irish resistance to the Union and desire for local self-governance led to the Irish War of Independence. Following the war, the island of Ireland was partitioned into two parts. Southern Ireland became the Irish Free State in 1922, while Northern Ireland remains part of the United Kingdom. Under the terms of the Anglo-Irish Treaty, Northern Ireland was included in the Irish Free State on independence, but had the right to opt out of the new state within one month of its establishment. This option was exercised on 7 December 1922. The 24-hour period in which Northern Ireland was officially part of the Irish Free State meant that every person ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on 6 December who fulfilled the citizenship provisions in the Constitution of the Irish Free State had automatically become an Irish citizen on that date.At its inception, the Irish Free State gained independence as a Dominion within the British Empire. Imperial legislation at the time dictated that although individual Dominions could define a citizenship for their own citizens, that citizenship would only be effective within the local Dominion's borders. A Canadian, New Zealand, or Irish citizen who traveled outside of their own country would have been regarded as a British subject. This was reinforced by Article 3 of the 1922 Free State Constitution, which stated that Irish citizenship could be exercised "within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Irish Free State".When Free State authorities were first preparing to issue Irish passports in 1923, the British government insisted on the inclusion of some type of wording that described the holders of these passports as "British subjects". The two sides could not reach agreement on this issue and when the Irish government began issuing passports in 1924, British authorities refused to accept these documents. British consular staff were instructed to confiscate any Irish passports that did not include the term "British subject" and replace them with British passports. This situation continued until 1930, when Irish passports were amended to describe its holders as "one of His Majesty's subjects of the Irish Free State". Despite these disagreements, the two governments agreed not to establish border controls between their jurisdictions and all Irish citizens and British subjects continued to have the ability to move freely within the Common Travel Area. Although Irish citizens have not been considered British subjects under Irish law since 1935, the British government continued to treat virtually all Irish citizens as British subjects, except for those who had acquired Irish citizenship by naturalisation since the Free State had not incorporated Part II of the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914 into its legislation.

Changing relationship with the Empire and Commonwealth
Diverging developments in Dominion legislation, as well as growing assertions of local national identity separate from that of Britain and the Empire, culminated with the creation of a substantive Canadian citizenship in 1946, breaking the system of a common imperial nationality. Combined with the approaching independence of India and Pakistan in 1947, comprehensive reform to nationality law was necessary at this point to address ideas that were incompatible with the previous system.The British Nationality Act 1948 redefined British subject as any citizen of the United Kingdom, its colonies, or other Commonwealth countries. Commonwealth citizen was first defined in this Act to have the same meaning. This alternative term was necessary to retain a number of newly independent countries in the Commonwealth that wished to become republics rather than preserve the monarch as head of state. The change in naming also indicated a shift in the base theory to this aspect of British nationality; allegiance to the Crown was no longer a requirement to possess British subject status and the common status would be maintained by voluntary agreement among the various members of the Commonwealth.British subject/Commonwealth citizen status co-existed with the citizenships of each Commonwealth country. A person born in Australia would be both an Australian citizen and a British subject. British subjects under the previous meaning who held that status on 1 January 1949 because of a connection with the United Kingdom or a remaining colony became Citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies (CUKC). CUKC status was the principal form of British nationality during this period of time.There was also a category of people called British subjects without citizenship. Irish citizens who fulfilled certain requirements could file formal claims with the Home Secretary to remain British subjects under this definition. Additionally, those who did not qualify for CUKC status or citizenship in other Commonwealth countries, or were connected with a country that had not yet defined citizenship laws, would transitionally remain British subjects in this group.

Irish departure from the Commonwealth
Despite the accommodations for republics, Ireland ended its Commonwealth membership in 1948 when it formally declared itself a republic and removed the British monarch's remaining official functions in the Irish state. This was recognised by Britain after passage of the Ireland Act 1949. Although Irish citizens have no longer been defined as British subjects in British law since 1949, they continue to be treated as non-foreign in the United Kingdom and retain the same rights and privileges exercised by Commonwealth citizens; Irish citizens remain eligible to vote and stand for parliament in the UK.The British Nationality Act 1948 unintentionally excluded certain British subjects associated with Ireland from acquiring CUKC status. The wording of that law did not take into account the 24-hour period during which Northern Ireland was part of the Irish Free State in 1922. Individuals born before 1922 in the area that became the Republic of Ireland to fathers also born in that area but were domiciled in Northern Ireland on Irish independence had nevertheless automatically acquired Irish citizenship. The Ireland Act 1949 specifically addresses this by deeming any person in such circumstances who had never registered for Irish citizenship and had not permanently resided in the Republic between 10 April 1935 and 1 January 1949 as a CUKC and having never ceased to be a British subject.

Restricting Commonwealth free movement
All British subjects under the reformed system initially continued to hold free movement rights in both the UK and Ireland. Non-white immigration into the UK was systemically discouraged, but strong economic conditions in Britain following the Second World War attracted an unprecedented wave of colonial migration. This entitlement was part of a wider initiative to preserve close relationships with certain Dominions and colonies (Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, and Southern Rhodesia) and to moderate nationalist attitudes within the Commonwealth. In response, Parliament imposed immigration controls on any subjects originating from outside the British Islands with the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962. This restriction was somewhat relaxed by the Immigration Act 1971 for patrials, subjects whose parents or grandparents were born in the United Kingdom, which gave effective preferential treatment to white Commonwealth citizens. Ireland mirrored this restriction and limited free movement only to people born on the islands of Great Britain or Ireland. However, individuals born in the UK since 1983 are only British citizens if at least one parent is already a British citizen. The Irish regulation created a legal anomaly where persons born in Britain without British citizenship nevertheless held an unrestricted right to settle in Ireland; this inconsistency was removed in 1999.In other parts of the Commonwealth, British subjects already did not have an automatic right to settle. Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa had immigration restrictions in place for British subjects from outside their jurisdictions targeted at non-white migrants since the late 19th century. After 1949, non-local British subjects under the new definition who were resident in these independent Commonwealth countries continued to retain certain privileges. This included eligibility to vote in elections, for preferred paths to citizenship, and for welfare benefits. British subjects were eligible to vote in New Zealand until 1975 and Australia until 1984 (though subjects on the electoral roll in that year are still eligible). In Canada, voting eligibility was revoked at the federal level in 1975, but not fully phased out in provinces until 2006. All Commonwealth citizens remain eligible to vote and stand for public office in the UK.

Post-imperial redefinition of nationality classes
By the 1970s and 1980s, most colonies of the British Empire had become independent and remaining ties to the United Kingdom had been significantly weakened. The UK updated its nationality law to reflect the more modest boundaries of its remaining territory and possessions with the British Nationality Act 1981. CUKCs were reclassified in 1983 into different nationality groups based on their ancestry, birthplace, and immigration status: CUKCs who had right of abode in the United Kingdom became British citizens while those connected with a remaining colony became British Dependent Territories citizens (BDTCs). Remaining CUKCs who were no longer associated with a British territory became British Overseas citizens. The definition of "British subject" became limited to include only the category of people previously called British subjects without citizenship who held that status through a connection with former British India or Ireland before 1949.

Former membership in the European Union
In 1973, the United Kingdom joined the European Communities (EC), a set of organisations that later developed into the European Union (EU). British citizens were able to work in other EC/EU countries under the freedom of movement for workers established by the 1957 Treaty of Rome and participated in their first European Parliament elections in 1979. With the creation of European Union citizenship by the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, free movement rights were extended to all nationals of EU member states regardless of their employment status. The scope of these rights was further expanded with the establishment of the European Economic Area in 1994 to include any national of an EFTA member state except for Switzerland, which concluded a separate free movement agreement with the EU that came into force in 2002.Not all British nationals were EU citizens. Only British citizens, British Overseas Territories citizens connected with Gibraltar, and British subjects under the 1981 Act who held UK right of abode were defined as UK nationals for the purposes of EU law. Although the Crown dependencies were part of the European Union Customs Union, free movement of persons was never implemented in those territories. Following the UK's withdrawal from the EU on 31 January 2020, British nationals have no longer been EU citizens. Despite this, British citizens continue to have free movement in Ireland as part of the preexisting arrangement for the Common Travel Area.While the UK was a member state of the EU, Cypriot and Maltese citizens held a particularly favoured status there. While non-EU Commonwealth citizens continued to need a residence visa to live in the UK, Cypriot and Maltese citizens were able to settle there and immediately hold full rights to political participation due to their status as both Commonwealth and EU citizens. This group of EU citizens (along with Irish citizens) domiciled in the UK were able to vote in the 2016 United Kingdom European Union membership referendum while all other non-British EU citizens could not.

Acquisition and loss of nationality
British citizenship
Prior to 1983, all Individuals born within the British Islands (the United Kingdom and Crown Dependencies) received British citizenship at birth regardless of the nationalities of their parents. Individuals born afterwards only receive citizenship at birth if at least one parent is a British citizen or considered to have settled status in the UK. Children born overseas are British citizens by descent if either parent is a citizen otherwise than by descent, subject to regulations. Adopted children are treated as if they were naturally born to the adopting parents at the time of adoption. Children born abroad to members of the British Armed Forces or British citizens on Crown service are treated as if they were born in the UK.Children born in the UK to a resident Irish citizen at any time are always British citizens at birth. Since 1983, the status of a child born in the UK is dependent on whether their parents held British citizenship or settled status at the time of their birth. Irish citizens residing in the UK are deemed to hold settled status upon arrival .Regulations concerning settled status for other European Union (EU), European Economic Area (EEA), and Swiss citizens have changed greatly over time, affecting the status of their children born during the different regulatory periods. EU/EEA citizens living in the UK before 2 October 2000 were automatically considered to be settled. Between that date and 29 April 2006, EU/EEA citizens were required to apply for permanent residency. Swiss citizens became subject to the same regulations on 1 June 2002. From 30 April 2006 until 30 June 2021, EU/EEA and Swiss citizens living in the UK for at least five years automatically received permanent resident status. Permanent resident status for these citizens expired on 1 July 2021, after which they have been required to hold settled status through the European Union Settlement Scheme or another path.Foreign nationals may naturalise as British citizens after residing in the UK for more than five years and possessing indefinite leave to remain (ILR) for at least one year. The residency requirement is reduced to three years if an applicant is married to a British citizen and they immediately become eligible for naturalisation after receiving ILR or equivalent. Applicants must demonstrate proficiency in the English, Welsh, or Scottish Gaelic languages and pass the Life in the United Kingdom test.

British Overseas Territories citizenship
Individuals born in a territory automatically receive BOTC status if at least one parent is a BOTC or has belonger status. Children born in an overseas territory to British citizen parents who are not settled in a territory are British citizens at birth, but not BOTCs. Parents do not necessarily need to be connected with the same overseas territory to pass on BOTC status. Alternatively, a child born in an overseas territory may be registered as a BOTC if either parent becomes a BOTC or settles in any overseas territory subsequent to birth. A child who lives in the same territory until age 10 and is not absent for more than 90 days in each year is also entitled to registration as a BOTC. Furthermore, an adopted child automatically become a BOTC on the effective day of adoption if either parent is a BOTC or has belonger status. In all cases that an individual is a British Overseas Territories citizen at birth or adoption within the territories, that person is a BOTC otherwise than by descent.Individuals born outside of the territories are BOTCs by descent if either parent is a BOTC otherwise than by descent. Unmarried fathers cannot automatically pass on BOTC status, and it would be necessary for them to register children as BOTCs. If a parent is a BOTC by descent, additional requirements apply to register children as BOTCs. Parents in Crown service who have children abroad are exempted from these circumstances, and their children would be BOTCs otherwise than by descent, as if they had been born on their home territory.Foreigners and non-BOTC British nationals may naturalise as British Overseas Territories citizens after residing in a territory for more than five years and possessing belonger status or permanent residency for more than one year. The residency requirement is reduced to three years if an applicant is married to a BOTC. All applicants for naturalisation and registration are normally considered by the governor of the relevant territory, but the Home Secretary retains discretionary authority to grant BOTC status. Since 2004, BOTC applicants aged 18 or older are required to take an oath of allegiance to the Sovereign and loyalty pledge to the relevant territory during their citizenship ceremonies.All British Overseas Territories citizens other than those solely connected with Akrotiri and Dhekelia became British citizens on 21 May 2002, and children born on qualified overseas territories to dual BOTC-British citizens since that date are both BOTCs and British citizens otherwise than by descent. Prior to 2002, only BOTCs from Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands were given unrestricted access to citizenship. BOTCs naturalised after that date may also become British citizens by registration at the discretion of the Home Secretary. Becoming a British citizen has no effect on BOTC status; BOTCs may also simultaneously be British citizens.

Other nationality classes
It is generally not possible to acquire other forms of British nationality. British Overseas citizenship, British subjecthood, and British protected person status are only transferred by descent if an individual born to a parent holding one of these statuses would otherwise be stateless. British Overseas citizens retain their status by association with most former British colonies, British subjects are connected specifically with Ireland or British India before 1949, and British protected persons are associated with territories that were under British control but not formally incorporated as part of the British Empire. British National (Overseas) status was exclusively granted by voluntary registration to Hong Kong residents who had been British Dependent Territories citizens prior to the transfer of sovereignty to China in 1997 and cannot be newly acquired in any case. Noncitizen British nationals may become British citizens by registration, rather than naturalisation, after residing in the United Kingdom for more than five years and possessing ILR for more than one year.

Renunciation and restoration
Any type of British nationality can be renounced by making a declaration to the Home Secretary, provided that the declarant possesses or intends to acquire another nationality. Former British citizens or BOTCs may subsequently apply for nationality restoration. Applicants who had originally renounced their British nationality in order to retain or acquire another nationality are entitled to register as British citizens or BOTCs once. Any subsequent renunciation and application for restoration, or someone applying for restoration who originally renounced their British nationality for a reason unrelated to acquiring or retaining an alternate nationality, would be subject to the discretionary approval of the Home Secretary.

Automatic loss of British nationality
British subjects (other than British subjects by virtue of a connection with the Republic of Ireland) and British protected persons lose British nationality upon acquiring any other form of nationality.

These provisions do not apply to British citizens.
British Overseas Territories citizens (BOTCs) who acquire another nationality do not lose their BOTC status but they may be liable to lose belonger status in their home territory under its immigration laws. Such persons are advised to contact the governor of that territory for information.
British Overseas citizens (BOCs) do not lose their BOC status upon acquisition of another citizenship, but any entitlement to registration as a British citizen on the grounds of having no other nationality no longer applies after acquiring another citizenship.

Deprivation of British nationality
The British government does not publish the number of people it strips of citizenship, but independent research by a lawyer-run website, in 2022, found at least 464 people's citizenship was revoked in the last 15 years. After the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 came into force British nationals could be deprived of their citizenship if and only if the Secretary of State was satisfied they were responsible for acts seriously prejudicial to the vital interests of the United Kingdom or an Overseas Territory.This was extended under the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006: people with dual nationality who are British nationals can be deprived of their British citizenship if the Secretary of State is satisfied that "deprivation is conducive to the public good", or if nationality was obtained by means of fraud, false representation or concealment of a material fact. Between 2006 and the end of 2021 at least 464 people have had their citizenship removed by the government since the law was introduced. There is a right of appeal. This provision has been in force since 16 June 2006 when the Immigration, Nationality and Asylum Act 2006 (Commencement No 1) Order 2006 brought it into force. Loss of British nationality in this way applies also to dual nationals who are British by birth. The Secretary of State may not deprive a person of British nationality, unless obtained by means of fraud, false representation or concealment of a material fact, if they are satisfied that the order would make a person stateless.This provision was again modified by the Immigration Act 2014 so as not to require that a third country would actually grant nationality to a person; British nationality can be revoked if "the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds for believing that the person is able, under the law of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom, to become a national of such a country or territory."The powers to strip citizenship were initially very rarely used. Between 2010 and 2015, 33 dual nationals had been deprived of their British citizenship. In the two years to 2013 six people were deprived of citizenship; then in 2013, 18 people were deprived, increasing to 23 in 2014. In 2017, over 40 people had been deprived as of July (at this time increased numbers of British citizens went to join "Islamic State" and then tried to return).The Home Office does not issue information on these cases and is resistant to answering questions, for example under the Freedom of Information Act 2000. It appears that the government usually waits until the person has left Britain, then sends a warning notice to their British home and signs a deprivation order a day or two later. Appeals are heard at the highly secretive Special Immigration Appeals Commission (SIAC), where the government can submit evidence that cannot be seen or challenged by the appellant.Home Secretary Sajid Javid said in 2018 that until then deprivation of nationality had been restricted to "terrorists who are a threat to the country", but that he intended to extend it to "those who are convicted of the most grave criminal offences". The acting director of Liberty responded "The home secretary is taking us down a very dangerous road. ... making our criminals someone else’s problem is ... the government washing its hands of its responsibilities ... Banishment belongs in the dark ages."A Nationality and Borders Bill was introduced to the British House of Commons in July 2021, sponsored by the Home Office under Home Secretary Priti Patel. In November 2021, an amendment to the Bill was introduced which, if passed, would allow people to be deprived of British citizenship without being given notice. At the time the Home Office reiterated its position on citizenship: "British citizenship is a privilege, not a right".

British citizenship ceremonies
From 1 January 2004, all new applicants for British citizenship by naturalisation or registration aged 18 or over if their application is successful must attend a citizenship ceremony and either make an affirmation or take an oath of allegiance to the monarch, and make a pledge to the UK.
Citizenship ceremonies are normally organised by:

local councils in England, Scotland, and Wales
the Northern Ireland Office
the governments of the Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey
the Governors of British Overseas Territories
British consular offices outside the United Kingdom and territories.Persons from what is now the Republic of Ireland born before 1949 reclaiming British subject status under section 31 of the 1981 Act do not need to attend a citizenship ceremony. If such a person subsequently applies for British citizenship by registration or naturalisation, attendance at a ceremony is required.
For those who applied for British citizenship before 2004:

the oath of allegiance was administered privately through signing a witnessed form in front of a solicitor or other accredited person
those who already held British nationality (other than British protected persons) were exempt, as were those citizens of countries with the King as Head of State (such as Australia and Canada).

See also
Visa policy of the United Kingdom
Visa requirements for British citizens
Visa requirements for British Nationals (Overseas)
Visa requirements for British Overseas citizens
Visa requirements for British Overseas Territories citizens

Notes
Passage 3:
She Did It
"She Did It" is a song written and originally recorded by Eric Carmen in 1977. Carmen's single was a Top 40 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, reaching number 23. "She Did It" was covered in 1981 by actor and singer Michael Damian, who reached number 69 on the Hot 100 with his version.

Eric Carmen version
Background and release
"She Did It" was first recorded and performed by Eric Carmen. Released in August 1977, it was the first and greatest hit on Carmen's second solo LP, Boats Against the Current.  It reached number 23 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, number 15 on the Cashbox Top 100, and number 11 in Canada.This ballad is an upbeat love song about finally finding the right person and experiencing love after being lonely for an extended period of time.  It is a happy answer to Carmen's more melancholy hits the year before, "All By Myself" and "Never Gonna Fall in Love Again." It has been hailed as "the best Beach Boys song Brian Wilson never wrote."Back-up vocals for "She Did It" were provided by Bruce Johnston and Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys, whose 1968 hit "Do It Again" is credited by Carmen with being the initial inspiration for the song because of the 'did-its'. "She Did It" also features Burton Cummings, formerly of the Guess Who, and a guitar solo by Andrew Gold ("Lonely Boy"), featuring his distinctive harmonized lead guitar sound, and drumming by Toto's Jeff Porcaro.  Carmen has stated that "She Did It" was in turn a source of inspiration for another song, the 1982 hit "Did It in a Minute" by Hall & Oates, with whom he was touring at the time their song became a hit.The 45 rpm cover sheath for "She Did It" was a black and white of the full-color photo taken for the album, with manuscript lettering instead of the cursive text which appeared on the cover of the LP.  The B side, "Someday," was omitted from the "Boats" LP, but was placed on Carmen's follow-up album, Change of Heart.
Two other songs penned and recorded by Carmen, "That's Rock 'n' Roll" and "Hey Deanie", but made into hits by Shaun Cassidy, charted concurrently with "She Did It" in late 1977, reaching numbers three and seven, respectively.On the Canadian singles chart, "She Did It" spent four consecutive weeks at number 11. One of the songs blocking it from entering the Top 10 was Carmen's own composition, "That's Rock 'n' Roll," a number-one hit in Canada. "She Did It" ranks as the 104th biggest Canadian hit of 1977.Chicago radio superstation WLS, which gave the song much airplay, ranked "She Did It" as the 56th most popular hit of 1977.
It reached as high as number 6 (for two weeks) on their surveys of November 19 and 26, 1977. Other cities where the song was played heavily include Los Angeles, Sacramento, San Jose, Las Vegas, Oklahoma City and Dallas in the west, and Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Charlotte, Atlanta and New Orleans in the east, in addition to Ohio, Carmen's home base."She Did It" also performed particularly well in Vancouver, where radio station CKLG-AM 1070 ranked "She Did It" as the 27th biggest hit of the year.  It peaked at number 3 for two weeks on their surveys of October 19 and 26, 1977.While not charting nationally in Australia, the song did become a Top 40 hit (#23) in the Sydney area on radio station 2SM.

Television performance
Carmen performed "She Did It" on The Midnight Special television program (season 6, episode 5) on October 14, 1977.  The show was hosted by Marilyn McCoo & Billy Davis Jr.

Other appearances
"She Did It" was featured on several compilation albums featuring music from 1977 and 1978. It was included on "20 Monster Hits" by EMI, as well as appearing on other similar collections by Ronco and K-Tel.  In 1993, it was included on My Crescent Love 2 – Afternoon AOR (BMG Victor).
"She Did It" has been included on the following collections of Carmen's material:

The Best of Eric Carmen (1988)
Definitive Collection (1997)
The Essential Eric Carmen (2014)

Chart performance
Michael Damian version
Background and release
Almost four years after Eric Carmen's release of "She Did It," the song was covered by actor and singer Michael Damian.  This version was Damian's debut single release.  It was a non-album single from 1981 that reached number 69 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart and number 95 on the Cash Box Top 100 chart.  It was released almost eight years before his subsequent hit, a cover of "Rock On," which reached number one in 1989. "She Did It" was backed with "I Love How You Love Me", a cover of the Paris Sisters.

Television performance
On April 11, 1981, Damian performed "She Did It" on the ABC-TV Saturday-afternoon program, American Bandstand.

Chart performance
Passage 4:
Krasnovishersky District
Krasnovishersky District (Russian: Краснови́шерский райо́н) is an administrative district (raion) of Perm Krai, Russia; one of the thirty-three in the krai. Municipally, it is incorporated as Krasnovishersky Municipal District. It is located in the northeast of the krai, in the valley of the Vishera River, and borders with the Komi Republic in the north, Sverdlovsk Oblast in the east, Cherdynsky District in the west, Solikamsky District in the south, and with the territory of the town of krai significance of Alexandrovsk in the southeast. The area of the district is 15,375 square kilometers (5,936 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Krasnovishersk. Population:  22,554 (2010 Census); 27,871 (2002 Census); 30,827 (1989 Census). The population of Krasnovishersk accounts for 71.4% of the district's total population.

Geography
The eastern part of the district is mostly mountainous, while the western part is mostly flat, with some hills with the height of about 190–220 meters (620–720 ft). The highest point of Perm Krai, Mount Tulymsky Kamen, is located in the district. There are many rivers in the district, including the Vishera River with its tributaries the Yazva, the Vels, the Uls, and many others. The town of Krasnovishersk is located 320 kilometers (200 mi) from the city of Perm. Natural resources of the district include diamonds, gold, oil, natural gas, and others.
The climate is temperate continental. The average annual temperature is +0.1 °C (32.2 °F); annual precipitation is 550–700 millimeters (22–28 in). Up to 87% of the district's territory is covered by forests. In the extreme northeast of the district the Vishera Nature Reserve is located.

History
The district was established on January 13, 1941. Until then, its territory was a part of Cherdynsky District. Krasnovishersk, the administrative center of the district, was granted town status on July 2, 1942.

Demographics
As of the 2002 Census, about 89.7% of district's population were Russians and 2.5% were the Komi people.

Economy
The industry of the district includes timber industry, pulp and paper mill, mining and food industry.

See also
Visherogorsk
Zagovorukha
Passage 5:
Thirukkanur
Thirukkanur is a village in the union territory of Puducherry, India. It is one of 16 villages located in Mannadipet commune panchayat of the Villianur taluk. It is bordered by the state of Tamil Nadu both to the east and west.
Thirukkanur has a primary health center, police station, post office, electricity office and registrar office.  The area is mainly oriented to agriculture. Thirukkanur market is the only bazaar catering to the needs of about 20 nearby villages.  There is no major industry within the purview area of the Thirukkanar Police Station.


== Notes ==
Passage 6:
Virginia, Lempira
Virginia (Spanish pronunciation: [biɾˈxinja]) is a municipality in the Honduran department of Lempira.
Virginia is located in Lempira Honduras and shares a border with El Salvador. Many Virginians travel to El Salvador to do their shopping, because the Honduran cities are far away from Virginia.
It is one of the smallest municipalities of the Lempira department. It is 15 km or 30 minutes away from Mapulaca if accessed through Gracias.

History
It was founded back in 1830. In the national division of 1889 it was one municipality of Candelaria.

Geography
It is situated in a semi flat place and surrounded by many hills.  The predominant vegetation corresponds to the sub tropical dry forest. In the municipality capital there are some inclined streets.

Boundaries
Its boundaries are: 

North : Candelaria municipality.
South : El Salvador.
East  : Piraera municipality.
West  : Mapulaca municipality.
Surface Extents: 36 km2

Resources
Since it is on the border with El Salvador, it is much easier for people to go there to establish commercial activities. Also there are more and better jobs on the other side of the border, with the advantage of receiving their wages in US dollars. It is not an ideal location for coffee plantations, therefore corn and beans crops became important (even though they are for local consumption); followed by cattle raising. Like the rest of the department, it has electricity and mobile communication services.

Population
Population: The amount of inhabitants was 2,734 and according to INE Honduras estimates, there will be 2,574 in 2015.
Villages: 5
Settlements: 35

Demographics
At the time of the 2013 Honduras census, Virginia municipality had a population of 2,548. Of these, 97.06% were Mestizo, 2.90% Indigenous (2.86% Lenca) and 0.04% Black or Afro-Honduran.

Tourism
As for the remaining 15 km, although this dirt road is not in the best condition, it is still an easy drive. A half-hour visit will be enough to see all there is to see in the municipality capital. For those who are interested in rural and quiet towns, this is a good place to visit. Surprisingly, the mobile phone signal from El Salvador is stronger than the Honduran signal. Since it is near the Lempa River, the local pastime is going there to bathe. The local holidays and festivals attract many visitors.

Local Holidays: "Santa Lucia" day on December 13.
Passage 7:
The Definitive Collection (Eric Carmen album)
The Definitive Collection is a 1997 greatest hits album of all the singles released by Cleveland, Ohio singer-songwriter Eric Carmen. It features five hits by the Raspberries, a power pop group which he led in the early 1970s. It also contains his versions of two major hits which he wrote for Shaun Cassidy, two popular songs from the movie Dirty Dancing, and his greatest hit, "All By Myself", which peaked at No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 on March 5, 1976.

Critical reception
Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic writes, "The Definitive Collection lives up to its title. Over the course of a single disc, the compilation features all of Eric Carmen's best-known songs and biggest hits"

Track listing
Musicians
Eric Carmen – Bass, Drums, Guitar, Acoustic Guitar, Electric Guitar, Rhythm Guitar, Harpsichord, Mellotron, Percussion, Piano, Electric Piano, Synthesizer, Tack Piano, Vocals, Background Vocals
Jim Bonfanti – Drums, Vocals
Mike Botts – Drums
Ollie E. Brown – Percussion
Wally Bryson – Guitar, Acoustic Guitar, Rhythm Guitar, Vocals
Charles Calello – Horn Arrangements
Tony Camillo – Horn Arrangements
Burton Cummings – Piano
– Percussion
Jimmie Haskell – Horn Arrangements
James Newton Howard – Synthesizer
Dan Hrdlicka – Guitar, Background Vocals
Bruce Johnston – Background Vocals
Steve Knill – Bass, Background Vocals
Danny Kortchmar – Acoustic Guitar
D. Dwight Krueger – Drums, Percussion, Background Vocals
Michael McBride – Drums, Percussion, Vocals, Background Vocals
Scott McCarl – Bass, Acoustic Guitar, Vocals
Tommy Morgan – Harmonica
Nigel Olsson – Drums, Background Vocals
Joe Porcaro – Drums, Percussion
Richard Reising – Guitar, Electric Guitar, Harpsichord, Synthesizer, Background Vocals
Valerie Carter – Background Vocals
Joe Chemay – Background Vocals
Curt Becher – Background Vocals
Brenda Russell – Background Vocals
Brian Russell – Background Vocals
Samantha Sang – Background Vocals
George Sipl – Organ, Synthesizer, Background Vocals
Dave Smalley – Bass, Rhythm Guitar, Vocals
Jai Winding – Piano, Electric Piano
Dave Wintour – Bass
Richie Zito – Electric Guitar

Production
Eric Carmen – Arranger, Producer
Bob Irwin – Compilation Producer, Mastering, Producer
Bob Gaudio – Producer
Jimmy Ienner – Executive Producer, Producer
Tom Rabstenek – Mastering
George Marino – Mastering
Greg Calbi – Mastering
Doug Sax – Mastering
Bernie Grundman – Mastering
Mark Howlett – Engineer
Tim Kramer – Engineer
Jim Bell – Engineer
Kevin Beamish – Engineer
Arnei Rosenberg – Engineer
Shelly Yakus – Engineer
Howard Steele – Engineer
Thom Wilson – Engineer
Jack Sherdel – Engineer
Dennis Kirk – Engineer
David Henson – Engineer
Don Gehman – Engineer
Larry Emerine – Engineer
Tony d'Amico – Engineer
Jim DeMain – Engineer, Remixing
Val Garay – Mixing
Joe Barbaria – Assistant Engineer
Rod O'Brien – Assistant Engineer
George Ybara – Assistant Engineer
Corky Stasiak – Assistant Engineer
David Thoener – Assistant Engineer
Kevin Herron – Assistant Engineer
Dennis Ferrante – Assistant Engineer
George Sipl – Remixing
Rita Karidis – Art DirectionTrack information and credits adapted from AllMusic and the album's liner notes.
Passage 8:
Swan Miara
Swan Miara (ساون میرا) is a village and union council (an administrative subdivision) of Mansehra District in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is located in the south of the district where it borders Abbottabad District.Formerly it was a part of the Princely State of Amb.
Passage 9:
States of Nigeria
Nigeria is a federation of 36 states and 1 federal capital territory. Each of the 36 states is a semi-autonomous political unit that shares powers with the federal government as enumerated under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT), is the capital territory of Nigeria, and it is in this territory that the capital city of Abuja is located. The FCT is not a state but is administered by elected officials who are supervised by the federal government. Each state is subdivided into local government areas (LGAs). There are 774 local governments in Nigeria. Under the constitution, the 36 states are co-equal but not supreme because sovereignty resides with the federal government. The constitution can be amended by the National Assembly, but each amendment must be ratified by two-thirds of the 36 states of the federation.

Current states and the Federal Capital Territory
Evolution of Nigerian states
Government
States of Nigeria have the right to organize and structure their individual governments in any way within the parameters set by the Constitution of Nigeria.

Legislature
At the state level, the legislature is unicameral, with the number of its members equal to three times the number of legislators it has in the Federal House of Representatives. It has the power to legislate on matters on the concurrent list.

Executive
At the state level, the head of the executive is the governor, who has the power to appoint people to the state executive council, subject to the advice and consent of the state house of assembly (legislature). The head of a ministry at the state level is the commissioner, who is assisted by a permanent secretary, who is also a senior civil servant of the state.

Judiciary
The Judiciary is one of the co-equal arms of the state government concerned with the interpretation of the laws of the state government. The judiciary is headed by the chief justice of the state appointed by the governor subject to the approval of the state house of assembly.

Chronology
See also
List of Nigerian states by population
ISO 3166-2:NG
List of state governors of Nigeria

Notes
Sources
Gboyega Ajayi (2007). The military and the Nigerian state, 1966–1993: a study of the strategies of political power control. Trenton, New Jersey: Africa World Press. ISBN 978-1-59221-568-3.
Solomon Akhere Benjamin (1999). The 1996 state and local government reorganizations in Nigeria. Ibadan: Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research. ISBN 978-181-238-9.
Rotimi T. Suberu (1994). 1991 state and local government reorganizations in Nigeria. Ibadan: Institute of African Studies, University of Ibadan. ISBN 978-2015-28-8.

External links
"New States of Nigeria". Statoids.
Headline News in Nigeria Archived 2018-08-20 at the Wayback Machine StatesStates And Capital In Nigeria, Their Slogans & Current Governors A comprehensive list of all states in Nigeria and their current governors.
Passage 10:
Adaba (woreda)
Adaba (Oromo: Aadabbaa) is one of the Aanaas in the Oromia of Ethiopia; it shares the name of its administrative center, Adaba. Part of the West Arsi Zone, Adaba is bordered on the southwest by Nensebo, on the west by Dodola, on the northwest by the Shabelle River which separates it from the Gedeb Asasa, and on the east and south by Bale Zone.
Ulrich Braukämper theorizes that the name "Adaba" comes from a Hadiya subgroup mentioned in the Royal Chronicle of Zara Yaqob, where they are referred to as the "Hababo". Braukämper has argued that the Hadiya kingdom prior to the 16th century included in this area, presenting a number of facts supporting his argument, as opposed to other experts who argue that it extended to the east.

Overview
The highest point in this woreda is Mount Darkeena; other notable peaks include Mount Doda and Mount Gamma; most rivers are tributaries of the Shabelle River and include the Meribo, Ieliso, Furuna, Ashiro and Mancha Kara. A survey of the land in this woreda shows that 16.9% is arable or cultivable, 23.3% pasture, 52.2% forest, and the remaining 7.6% is considered swampy, mountainous or otherwise unusable. Notable landmarks include Bale Mountains National Park. Linseed, sugar cane, cereals and fruits and vegetables are important cash crops.Industry in the woreda includes 39 grain mills, 12 edible oil mills and 5 wood-working shops, as well as 91 wholesalers, 271 retailers and 153 service providers. There were 19 Farmers Associations with 43,154 members and 5 Farmers Service Cooperatives with 3454 members. Adaba has 6 kilometers of dry-weather and 91 all-weather road, for an average of road density of 42 kilometers per 1000 square kilometers.

Demographics
The 2007 national census reported a total population for this woreda of 138,717, of whom 68,775 were men and 69,942 were women; 12,099 or 8.72% of its population were urban dwellers. The majority of the inhabitants were Muslim, with 84.39% of the population reporting they observed this belief, while 14.46% of the population said they practiced Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity.Based on figures published by the Central Statistical Agency in 2005, this woreda has an estimated total population of 138,232, of whom 70,638 were males and 67,594 were females; 17,875 or 12.93% of its population are urban dwellers, which is less than the Zone average of 13.5%. With an estimated area of 2,166.41 square kilometers, Adaba has an estimated population density of 63.8 people per square kilometer, which is greater than the Zone average of 27.The 1994 national census reported a total population for this woreda of 97,586, of whom 47,820 were men and 49,766 women; 9,997 or 10.24% of its population were urban dwellers at the time. The two largest ethnic groups reported in Adaba were the Oromo (93%), and the Amhara (5.49%); all other ethnic groups made up 1.51% of the population. oromo was spoken as a first language by 91.88%, and 7.49% spoke Amharic; the remaining 0.63% spoke all other primary languages reported. The majority of the inhabitants were Muslim, with 79.97% of the population having reported they practiced that belief, while 19.26% of the population said they professed Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity.


== Notes ==
Passage 11:
Cleveland, North Carolina
Cleveland is a town in the Cleveland Township of Rowan County, North Carolina, United States. The population was 871 at the 2010 census.

History
The town dates from 1831 but was not incorporated until 1833.  The first post office in Cleveland, Cowansville, was established in 1831.  By 1850, prior to the US Civil War and the completion of the Western Carolina Railroad, the town was named Rowan Mills.  Rowan Mills was named for the five story flour mill that Osborn Giles Foard owned in Cleveland.  The Rowan Mills Post Office served the area north of the rail line and extended into Scotch Irish Township after the Civil War in 1870.  The town and post office kept the name Rowan Mills until 1876 when it was renamed Third Creek Station.  In the 1880 U.S. Census, there were 17 families and 89 persons living in the Village of Third Creek Station.  It was not until 1884 that the townspeople renamed the town after Grover Cleveland, who is supposed to have visited the town during his presidential campaign.

Geography
Cleveland is located at 35°43′52″N 80°40′44″W (35.731021, -80.678963).According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 1.5 square miles (3.9 km2), all  land.

Demographics
2020 census
As of the 2020 United States census, there were 846 people, 392 households, and 283 families residing in the town.

2010 census
As of the census of 2010, there were 871 people, 328 households, and 236 families residing in the town. The population density was 580.7 inhabitants per square mile (224.2/km2). There were 377 housing units at an average density of 251.3 per square mile (97.0/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 66.9% White, 24.1% African American, 5.4% from other races, and 3.6% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 6.5% of the population.
There were 328 households, out of which 34.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 47.6% were married couples living together, 16.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.0% were non-families. 24.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 9.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.66 and the average family size was 3.10.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 28.4% under the age of 18, 7.2% from 18 to 24, 29.3% from 25 to 44, 23.4% from 45 to 64, and 11.7% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 34.8 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 90.2 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $39,474, and the median income for a family was $58,000. Males had a median income of $51,000 versus $29,500 for females. The per capita income for the town was $19,506. About 13.1% of families and 20.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 25.0% of those under age 18 and 8.9% of those age 65 or over.

Town twinning / sister city
Since February 8, 2008, Cleveland has been twinned with Killyleagh, Northern Ireland.

See also
Cleveland Township
2007 Freightliner wildcat strike
Passage 12:
Oak Lawn, Illinois
Oak Lawn is a village in Cook County, Illinois, United States.  The population was 58,362 at the 2020 census. Oak Lawn is a suburb of Chicago, located southwest of the city. It shares borders with the city in two areas but is surrounded mostly by other suburbs.

History
Founding
In August 1835, James B. Campbell purchased the land stretching between Cicero Avenue and Central Avenue from 95th Street to 103rd Street. It is unclear what Campbell's intentions with the area were, but by 1840, he had lost a court battle with the Illinois State Bank and his land was sold in a public auction. John Simpson, a prominent figure in early Oak Lawn history, bought the northern half of the property in 1842. By 1859, the recently incorporated government of Worth Township paid for the construction of Black Oak Grove Road, an early name for 95th Street. Black Oak Grove is also the earliest known name of the area that would become Oak Lawn. It was later shortened to Black Oak or Black Oaks, but in 1882, the post office, train depot and surrounding community became known simply as Oak Lawn. Before this however, the area now known as Oak Lawn was, briefly during the early 1800s, called Agnes. It was also on some occasion referred to as Oak Park. Over the next two decades, the area grew in population as more homes were built and local business sprang into being. As the area continued to grow, many residents visited Englewood by train to shop. Oak Lawn residents also made income during early days by selling their farm and dairy products to various markets in Chicago.

Incorporation
In 1909, Oak Lawn was incorporated as a village. The following years, there were major improvements to local infrastructure and government services, such as the introduction of the police magistrate and village marshal, along with the building of a village hall and jailhouse. Electric lights were brought to 95th Street in 1911, the volunteer fire department began in 1923, Oak Lawn's first bank opened in 1925, and the Community High School District 218 was formed. The population had grown to 2,045 by 1930, and civic improvements were steadily made over the next decade. In 1934, a collection of one hundred books was the beginning of the Oak Lawn Public Library. By 1935, President Franklin D. Roosevelt created the Works Progress Administration as part of the New Deal, which supported a variety of public works, including libraries. With the help of a WPA grant, the new library opened its doors in 1936.

Post 1945
After World War II, with veterans returning home and taking advantage of the G.I. Bill, Oak Lawn experienced a major population boom. Beginning in 1949, Oak Lawn Round-Up Days became an annual event and helped to promote the village. It started with 25,000 people, and the Western-themed celebration brought in over 100,000 attendees in 1952. In this year, Jack Brickhouse was master of ceremonies, and the parade was televised on WGN-TV. By 1957, Round-Up Days had become too large, and the next year a final scaled-down version was held.In the 1950s, a village managerial government began, and a new library and fire station were constructed. By 1960, there were nearly 20,000 residents in Oak Lawn.
On April 21, 1967, a tornado touched down in Oak Lawn that is recorded as one of the worst to strike an urban area. Roughly 900 buildings were damaged or destroyed, and over 30 people were killed.
The town was rebuilt in the coming years, and witnessed further population growth, peaking at 63,500 between 1973 and 1976. However, there was a decrease in residents in the 1980s, and an aging population led to the closure of several schools during this time. In response, the village began a process of redevelopment to counteract the decrease. This redevelopment has focused primarily on businesses and structures in the core area of Oak Lawn, around 95th Street between Cicero Avenue and Central Avenue.

1967 tornado
On April 21, 1967, an F4 tornado touched down at 105th Street and Kean Avenue in Palos Hills, 5 miles (8 km) west of Oak Lawn. There were no deaths in Palos Hills, although a number of homes were destroyed and two transmission towers collapsed. After rising from the ground, the tornado touched down again at the Starlite Drive-In Theater at 6400 West 95th Street. With winds estimated to be over 200 miles per hour (320 km/h), the tornado tore through Oak Lawn, tossing cars and buses in the air. After cutting Oak Lawn Community High School in half, it caused damage to St. Gerald's and continued to 91st Street and Cicero Avenue, heavily damaging the Airway Trailer Park and the Oak Lawn Roller Rink before rising from ground level. It touched down again in nearby Hometown, Evergreen Park, and Chicago before dissipating over Lake Michigan. In just 16 minutes, the storm left a 16-mile (26 km) path of destruction and over 30 people dead.

Downtown redevelopment
Starting in 2002, downtown Oak Lawn (95th Street between Tulley Avenue and 55th Court) became the target of a massive redevelopment program; properties on the north and south sides of 95th Street were demolished. Eventually, several square blocks were leveled, making room for several multistory, high-end condominium complexes with retail space on the main floors. Part of the project was the expansion of the Metra commuter train station that houses a retail/office center and a new  children's museum. This complex also includes a multistory parking garage. Downtown Oak Lawn as seen today bears little resemblance to the downtown from 2002. It now features modern high-rise buildings, new shopping areas, a large contemporary Metra train station, and several new retail and service facilities.

Geography
According to the 2010 census, Oak Lawn has a total area of 8.59 square miles (22.25 km2), all land.

Demographics
As of the 2020 census there were 58,362 people, 21,154 households, and 13,544 families residing in the village. The population density was 6,809.24 inhabitants per square mile (2,629.06/km2). There were 23,362 housing units at an average density of 2,725.70 per square mile (1,052.40/km2). The racial makeup of the village was 68.31% White, 7.65% African American, 0.87% Native American, 2.83% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 9.43% from other races, and 10.89% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 22.56% of the population.
There were 21,154 households, out of which 48.24% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.89% were married couples living together, 11.64% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.97% were non-families. 32.16% of all households were made up of individuals, and 15.73% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.33 and the average family size was 2.60.
The village's age distribution consisted of 21.7% under the age of 18, 7.0% from 18 to 24, 25.3% from 25 to 44, 27.6% from 45 to 64, and 18.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 41.0 years. For every 100 females, there were 96.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.8 males.
The median income for a household in the village was $69,352, and the median income for a family was $90,690. Males had a median income of $54,168 versus $38,363 for females. The per capita income for the village was $33,998. About 7.5% of families and 10.1% of the population were below the poverty line, including 13.2% of those under age 18 and 9.6% of those age 65 or over.

Parks and recreation
Oak Lawn maintains an expansive park system. From small corner play lots to the 38-acre (150,000 m2) Centennial Park, there are over 300 acres (1.2 km2) of parks, recreational facilities and open land. These include playgrounds, walking paths, baseball fields, basketball, volleyball and tennis courts, plus outdoor swimming pools, an indoor ice arena, two fitness centers, and an 18-hole golf course. Each area in Oak Lawn has its own recreational area, totaling 22 parks.

Education
Oak Lawn has public education schooling children from K–5 in its many elementary schools, including Kolb, Lieb, Harnew, Columbus Manor, Covington, Hannum, Hometown, Kolmar, and Sward. Oak Lawn has two public middle schools:  Simmons Middle School, and Oak Lawn-Hometown Middle School.
There are two public high schools, Oak Lawn Community High School and Harold L. Richards High School.
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago operates Catholic schools. Catholic grammar schools include St. Germaine, St. Catherine, St. Linus, and St. Gerald. St. Louis de Montfort School closed in 2017 with 133 students that year.

Infrastructure
Stop sign program
In mid-2007, Oak Lawn began hanging additional messages to village stop signs in an attempt to have drivers obey the signs. The signs were the idea of the village President and local residents were encouraged to submit their own ideas. Found throughout the village, the signs garnered attention with the press and were not well received by residents, nor did they noticeably impact public safety. While considered humorous by some, many others considered it a publicity stunt at tax payer's expense.The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and IDOT voiced their concerns about the use of these nonconforming stop signs and the village removed them in April 2008. Initially, the Village President refused to remove the signs until IDOT threatened to withhold millions of dollars in funding for infrastructure.

Notable people
Diandra Asbaty (born 1980), professional bowler; Team USA member and spokesperson for USBC
Brian Bogusevic (born 1984), former outfielder for Chicago Cubs
Tim Byrdak (born 1973), Major League Baseball pitcher 1998 to 2013; born in Oak Lawn
Kevin Cronin (born 1951), lead vocalist for rock band REO Speedwagon
David Diehl (born 1980), football player, two-time Super Bowl champion for New York Giants
Mark Donahue, football player, lineman for Cincinnati Bengals, two-time Consensus All-American at University of Michigan
Dan Donegan, guitarist for rock band Disturbed
John Joseph Duda, actor; born in Oak Lawn
Michael Flatley (born 1958), Irish step dancer; attended St. Linus and Brother Rice High School
Jack Gwynne, illusionist and actor, died in Oak Lawn (1969)
David A. Johnston, volcanologist, killed during 1980 Mount St. Helens eruption
Benn Jordan, recording artist known as The Flashbulb; attended Oak Lawn Community High School
C.J. Kupec, basketball player, Oak Lawn High School star, played for Michigan and NBA's Los Angeles Lakers
Rob Mackowiak, player for several Major League Baseball teams
Bobby Madritsch, former pitcher for Seattle Mariners
Rory Markham, UFC and IFL mixed martial arts fighter
Mike Mollo, heavyweight boxer
Bryan Rekar, former pitcher for Colorado Rockies, Tampa Bay Devil Rays, and Kansas City Royals; born in Oak Lawn
Michael A. Ruddy, Illinois state representative and businessman, lived in Oak Lawn
Marc Rzepczynski, pitcher for Seattle Mariners; born in Oak Lawn
Dwyane Wade, former NBA player and three-time NBA champion with Miami Heat, attended Richards High School in Oak Lawn
Harry Yourell, Illinois state representative and businessman
Kanye West, musician, rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer, and fashion designer
Juice WRLD, rapper, died in Oak Lawn (2019)
Passage 13:
Gold Hill, North Carolina
Gold Hill is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in southeastern Rowan County, North Carolina, United States near the Cabarrus County line. It was first listed as a CDP in the 2020 census with a population of 372. It is situated near the Yadkin River and is served by U.S. Highway 52 and Old Beatty Ford Road. Gold was found in this small town outside Salisbury in the 19th century.

Mining
Gold was first discovered in what would become the town of Gold Hill in southeastern Rowan County in 1824. $6 million in gold was mined here prior to the Civil War and a mint was located in Charlotte as a result. In the 1840s, Gold Hill was "a raucous mining camp town with a considerable number of saloons and brothels." The Barnhardt shaft, named for Col. George Barnhardt of the Reed Mine (NC State Historic Site) family, was opened in 1842 and reached a depth of 435 feet. The Earnhardt/Randolph Mine Shaft was opened in 1843 across the street from the Barnhardt Mine and reached a depth of 850 feet becoming the deepest gold mine in the United States. The Barnhardt and Randolph mines together were described as "the richest and most productive gold mines east of the Mississippi". Gold Hill was incorporated in 1843 and had a population of 3000 people and a total of 23 mines in the Gold Hill Mining District. The California Gold Rush and the American Civil War significantly reduced the mining activity. Although some mining occurred in the years following the Civil War a greater resurgence of mining began with the purchase of the Gold Hill Mines and the establishment of 'The New Gold Hill Mining Company' based in London, England. Considerable profits were realized with gold being shipped to England during the period of 1880-1900. Production came to an end by 1915.

Tourist attraction
The town's first Founders' Day, which was not called by that name, took place in 1989 and was not intended to become an annual event, but it ended up being so popular that a steering committee was formed for the purpose of starting a foundation to find and preserve the town's heritage. The Historic Gold Hill and Mines Foundation, Inc. began in 1992, and that year, a second Founders' Day took place. Gold Hill Mines Historic Park began with a donation of 16 acres by Billie Johnson and was dedicated in 1993; by the 25th Founders' Day it was 70 acres. Founders' Day became an annual event on the fourth Saturday in September, and they were moved from the fire department to the park located  at 735 St. Stephens Church Road.E.H. Montgomery General Store, Mauney’s Store, the jail and a rock wall date back to the 1840s. Several buildings were moved to and restored for what has been described as a "re-creation" of a historic village. A gas station built in 1928 was moved from U.S. 52 in 1998. The File Store from Craven, North Carolina near Salisbury was built in 1906 and moved to Gold Hill in 2001. A miner's cabin was moved to Gold Hill in 2011 and became a bakery.The Daniel Isenhour House and Farm was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2000.Website: https://historicgoldhill.org

Demographics
2020 census
Note: the US Census treats Hispanic/Latino as an ethnic category. This table excludes Latinos from the racial categories and assigns them to a separate category. Hispanics/Latinos can be of any race.