Passage 1:
Pythons (album)
Pythons is the second studio album by indie rock band Surfer Blood. It was released in June 2013 under Sire Records and produced by Gil Norton. Following the release of their EP, Tarot Classics, Surfer Blood had been writing songs whilst on tour. The first song to be written for the album is technically "Prom Song", as they have had the guitar parts for this song for a few years now. The album features all the qualities that define Surfer Blood's sound, but is stripped of its reverb and given a more polished production, as opposed to the production that took place in front-man John Paul Pitts' apartment. "Pixies" guitarist Joey Santiago lent the band equipment such as amplifiers and guitars during the album's production, as Norton is a close friend of his because he produced most of the Pixies discography.

Track listing
Personnel
John Paul Pitts - vocals, guitar
Thomas Fekete - guitar, vocals
Kevin Williams- bass, keyboards, vocals
Tyler Schwarz - drums
Gil Norton - producer
Dan Austin - engineer, programming
Brian Gardner - mastering
Rob Schnapf - mixing
Chris Szczech - mixing assistant
Brendan Dekora - assistant engineer
Jeff Sosnow - A&R
Alex Black - A&R
Julia Pitts - photography
Frank Maddocks - art direction, photography
Esteban Neumann - illustrations
Passage 2:
Waterfalls (album)
Waterfalls is a live album by American saxophonist and composer John Klemmer featuring studio enhanced live performances recorded in Los Angeles for the Impulse! label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 4 stars stating it is "Worth investigating by open-eared listeners".

Track listing
All compositions by John Klemmer"Prelude I" – 3:33
"Waterfalls" – 4:19
"Utopia: Man's Dream, Part 1" – 8:47
"Utopia: Man's Dream, Part 2" – 3:50
"There's Some Light Ahead" – 4:29
"Centrifugal Force" – 5:59
"Prelude II" – 4:02
"Waterfall II" – 6:08Recorded in performance at the Ash Grove in Los Angeles, California on June 17, 1972 and "enchanted" at The Village Recorder in Los Angeles on June 22, 1972

Personnel
John Klemmer – tenor saxophone, soprano saxophone, echoplex
Mike Nock – electric piano
Wilton Felder – electric bass
Eddie Marshall – drums
Victor Feldman – percussion
Diana Lee – vocals (tracks 3, 4 & 6)
Passage 3:
2 Horns / 2 Rhythm
2 Horns / 2 Rhythm is an album by American jazz trumpeter Kenny Dorham, featuring performances with Ernie Henry. It was recorded in 1957 and released on Riverside Records. This was Henry's last recording session.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album four stars and stated "The sparse setting (unusual for a Dorham session) works quite well".

Track listing
Recorded in New York City on November 13 (tracks 1–3, 5–7 & 9) and December 2 (tracks 4 & 8), 1957

Personnel
Kenny Dorham – trumpet, piano (track 3)
Ernie Henry – alto saxophone
Eddie Mathias (tracks 1–3, 5–7 & 9), Wilbur Ware (tracks 4 & 8) – bass
G.T. Hogan – drums
Passage 4:
Crystal (Ahmad Jamal album)
Crystal is an album by American jazz pianist Ahmad Jamal featuring performances recorded in 1987 and released on the Atlantic label.

Critical reception
In an Allmusic review by Scott Yanow states "There are some magical moments on this quartet set... Jamal's control of dynamics and inventive use of space proved to be as effective as it had been when he first made his mark in the 1950s, although his chord voicings and general style had evolved. Jamal and his group perform ten of his originals with taste, swing and subtle surprises".

Track listing
All compositions by Ahmad Jamal

"Quest for Light" – 4:48
"Arabesque" – 4:48
"Avo" – 7:04
"Piano Solo" – 1:57
"For My Daughter" – 3:34
"Perugia" – 3:57
"The Last Day" – 6:00
"Crystal" – 4:58
"Swahililand" – 4:08
"The Canteen" – 3:08

Personnel
Ahmad Jamal – piano
James Cammack – bass
David Bowler – drums
Willie White – percussion
Passage 5:
Plenty, Plenty Soul
Plenty, Plenty Soul is an album by American jazz vibraphonist Milt Jackson featuring performances recorded in 1957 and released on the Atlantic label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow stated that "these all-star dates still sound fresh and enthusiastic decades later".

Track listing
All compositions by Milt Jackson, except as indicated"Plenty, Plenty Soul" (Milt Jackson, Quincy Jones) - 9:33
"Boogity Boogity" (Jones) - 4:55
"Heartstrings" - 4:53
"Sermonette" (Cannonball Adderley) - 5:23
"The Spirit-Feel" - 4:22
"Ignunt Oil" - 5:35
"Blues at Twilight" (Jones) - 6:46Recorded in New York City on January 5 (tracks 4–7) and January 7 (tracks 1–3), 1957

Personnel
Milt Jackson – vibes
Joe Newman - trumpet
Jimmy Cleveland - trombone (tracks 1–3)
Cannonball Adderley - alto saxophone (tracks 1–3)
Frank Foster (tracks 1–3), Lucky Thompson (tracks 4–7) - tenor saxophone
Sahib Shihab - baritone saxophone (tracks 1–3)
Horace Silver - piano
Percy Heath (tracks 1–3), Oscar Pettiford (tracks 4–7) - bass
Art Blakey (tracks 1–3), Connie Kay (tracks 4––7) – drums
Quincy Jones - arranger (tracks 1–3)
Passage 6:
The Main Attraction (album)
The Main Attraction is an album by American jazz guitarist Grant Green featuring performances recorded in 1976 and released on the Kudu label.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Thom Jurek awarded the album two stars and stated "While it's true that this isn't one of Green's best records, it's not by any means his worst... Contrary to jazz critics' opinions, Green had nothing to be ashamed of on Main Attraction. If funky '70s soul-jazz is your thing, you won't go wrong with this one".

Track listing
"The Main Attraction" (Don Grolnick, Steve Khan, Will Lee, David Matthews, Andy Newmark) - 19:35
"Future Feature" (Matthews) - 7:47
"Creature" (Grant Green) - 10:20Recorded at Rudy Van Gelder Studio, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey in March 1976 with additional recording at A&R Studios, NYC

Personnel
Grant Green - guitar
Burt Collins, Jon Faddis - trumpet
Sam Burtis - trombone
Hubert Laws - flute
Michael Brecker, Joe Farrell - tenor saxophone
Ronnie Cuber - baritone saxophone
Don Grolnick - electric piano, clavinet
Steve Khan - rhythm guitar
Will Lee - electric bass
Andy Newmark - drums
Carlos Charles - conga, percussion
Sue Evans - percussion
Dave Matthews - arranger, conductor
Passage 7:
It's What's Happenin'
It's What's Happenin' (subtitled The Varitone Sound of Clark Terry) is an album by American jazz trumpeter Clark Terry featuring performances recorded in 1967 for the Impulse! label.  Remastered in 2012 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Impulse! Records, it was reissued together with Terry's only other record for the label as a solo leader, The Happy Horns of Clark Terry.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Richard S. Ginell awarded the album 3 stars stating "Not many will bother to recall that Clark Terry was the first trumpeter to make a recording with Selmer's Varitone attachment -- an electronic hookup to an amplifier that allowed a horn player to play octaves. Though the instrument quickly fell out of favor after a very brief vogue, it still produced an attractively soulful sound that was a good fit with Terry's jaunty, slurry, note-bending manner... there is nothing unmusically sensational about anything that happens here.".

Track listing
All compositions by Clark Terry except where noted.

"Electric Mumbles" - 3:51
"Secret Love" (Paul Francis Webster, Sammy Fain) - 6:15
"Take Me Back to Elkhart" - 7:11
"Take the "A" Train" (Billy Strayhorn) - 5:03
"Tee Pee Time" - 6:25
"Grand Canyon Suite" (Ferde Grofé) - 7:05

Personnel
Clark Terry - Varitone trumpet
Don Friedman - piano
George Duvivier - bass
Dave Bailey - drums
Passage 8:
Foolin' Myself
Foolin' Myself is an album of trio performances by the American jazz pianist Jaki Byard recorded in 1988 and released on the Italian Soul Note label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Ken Dryden awarded the album 2+1⁄2 stars, stating "While the pianist's technique is impressive as always, his songs are not as strong as on many of his other releases".

Track listing
All compositions by Jaki Byard except as indicated"Suite 27: Waterfalls, Highways, Skyways, Waterways" - 5:11
"Oslo to Kristiansund to Malmo" - 3:10
"Searchlight No. 2" - 9:22
"Stage I / Stage II" - 4:17
"Breath" (Ralph Hamperian) - 8:27
"Foolin' Myself" (Jack Lawrence, Peter Tinturin) - 3:50
"Land of Love" - 6:36Recorded at Sound Ideas Studios in New York City on August 25, 1988

Personnel
Jaki Byard – piano
Ralph Hamperian - bass
Richard Allen - drums
Passage 9:
Three for Shepp
Three for Shepp is an album by American saxophonist Marion Brown featuring performances recorded in 1966 for the Impulse! label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Thom Jurek awarded the album 4½ stars, stating: "Marion Brown's Three for Shepp is the image-in-the-mirror companion to Archie Shepp's Four for Trane recorded the year before. The program is equally divided between Brown's originals, which occupy the first half of the album, and Shepp tunes that take up the latter half. What is immediately striking is how similar in tone, color, and texture the two men were when it came to composition. Brown arms himself here with crack bands for these recordings... This is a classic Impulse! recording of the period by an overlooked master."The authors of the Penguin Jazz Guide wrote: "Brown's Impulse! records are routinely overlooked... In the wake of this, his first successful record, Brown took to the road, playing tirelessly but curbing his studio activities. Impulse! had already released Shepp's Four For Trane. This was explicitly intended as a companion project and its arresting opening... establishes it as one of the most inventive in the label's distinguished catalogue... Brief as it is at just 35 minutes, Three For Shepp is so densely packed with musical information that it takes many, many listens to deconstruct: a living lesson in musical history, a passionate manifesto for the future."A reviewer at SoundOhm included the album in the "Best of 2019" playlist, and stated: "Three For Shepp balances fiery energy and delicate precision... Even this early in his career, Brown stood apart from his peers in "the new thing." His solos were as gentle as they were furious. Informed by the African American folk traditions of his native Georgia and an enthusiastic embrace of the avant-garde, his music would confront and challenge society. As Brown says in the original liner notes, 'The music is definitely a part of what's going on in the black revolution in America.'  Three For Shepp still sounds crucial today (over 50 years later) and remains a vital statement of jazz's past, present and future."

Track listing
All compositions by Marion Brown except as noted

"New Blue" - 5:11
"Fortunato" - 8:54
"The Shadow Knows" - 3:04
"Spooks" (Archie Shepp) - 4:32
"West India" (Shepp) - 6:24
"Delicado" (Shepp) - 6:38

Personnel
Marion Brown - alto saxophone
Grachan Moncur III - trombone
Dave Burrell (tracks 1-3), Stanley Cowell (tracks 4-6) - piano
Norris Jones - bass
Bobby Capp (tracks 1-3), Beaver Harris (tracks 4-6) – drums
Passage 10:
Benny Golson's New York Scene
Benny Golson's New York Scene is the debut album by saxophonist Benny Golson featuring performances recorded in late 1957 and originally released on the Contemporary label.

Reception
John S. Wilson's contemporaneous review was positive, noting that both quintet and nonet bands feature "Farmer playing with broad authority no matter what the fare at hand while Golson's warm, dark lines flare and glide through all the pieces." Scott Yanow of Allmusic stated, "this underrated gem served as a strong start to Benny Golson's influential solo career".

Track listing
All compositions by Benny Golson except as indicated."Something in B flat" (Ray Bryant) - 6:04
"Whisper Not" - 6:01
"Step Lightly" - 6:54
"Just by Myself" - 4:12
"Blues It" - 6:52
"You're Mine, You" (Johnny Green, Edward Heyman) - 4:22
"Capri" (Gigi Gryce) - 3:59
"B.G.'s Holiday" - 5:34 Bonus track on CD

Personnel
Benny Golson - tenor saxophone
Art Farmer - trumpet
Jimmy Cleveland - trombone  (tracks 2, 4 & 7)
Julius Watkins - French horn (tracks 2, 4 & 7)
Gigi Gryce - alto saxophone (tracks 2, 4 & 7)
Sahib Shihab - baritone saxophone (tracks 2, 4 & 7)
Wynton Kelly - piano
Paul Chambers - bass
Charlie Persip - drums
Passage 11:
Tarot Classics
Tarot Classics is an EP by Florida-based indie rock band Surfer Blood released on October 25, 2011, on Kanine Records. It is their last release for Kanine.

Reception
Tarot Classics received generally favorable reviews from music critics.

Track listing
All songs written by John Paul Pitts, Thomas Fekete, Tyler Schwarz and Kevin Williams, except as noted.

I'm Not Ready (John Paul Pitts, Thomas Fekete, Tyler Schwarz)
Miranda
Voyager Reprise
Drinking Problem
Voyager Reprise (Another Summer of Love Remix)
Drinking Problem (Speculator Remix)
Passage 12:
Soundsigns
Soundsigns is an album by the American jazz saxophonist Dewey Redman of performances recorded in 1978 for the Galaxy label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 3 stars stating "Recorded at the same sessions that resulted in Musics, this LP (which has not yet been reissued on CD) is actually more exploratory".

Track listing
All compositions by Redman except as indicated"Piece for Tenor and Two Basses"  - 8:23
"Half Nelson" (Miles Davis) - 10:07
"Adesso Lo Sai" - 13:59
"Come Earth" - 8:00Recorded at Fantasy Studios in Berkeley, California on October 18 & 19, 1978

Personnel
Dewey Redman - tenor saxophone (tracks 1-3), harp (track 4)
Fred Simmons - piano (tracks 2 & 3)
Charlie Haden (tracks 1 & 4), Mark Helias - bass
Eddie Moore - drums, saw, cymbal (tracks 2-4)
Passage 13:
Tijuana Jazz
Tijuana Jazz is an album by American jazz vibraphonist Gary McFarland and trumpeter Clark Terry featuring performances recorded in 1965 for the Impulse! label. The album was also released in the UK on the HMV label as CLP3541.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 3 stars stating: "McFarland's arrangements are fine, but the solos are quite short, and the Mexican-flavored music is not particularly memorable. A blown opportunity".

Track listing
All compositions by Gary McFarland except as indicated"South of the Border" (Jimmy Kennedy, Michael Carr) - 2:06
"Acapulco at Night" - 2:52
"Fantastic, That's You" (George Cates, George Douglas) - 2:54
"Limehouse Blues" (Philip Braham, Douglas Furber) - 3:37
"Tijuana" (Cates, Douglas) - 2:09
"Marcheta" (Victor Schertzinger) - 2:55
"Granny's Samba" - 3:30
"Soul Bird (Tin Tin Deo)" (Gil Fuller, Chano Pozo) - 4:01
"Mexicali Rose" (Jack Tenney, Helen Stone) - 2:27
"Ira Schwartz's Golden Dream" - 3:32
"Mary Jane" - 3:05
"Sweet Georgia Brown" (Ben Bernie, Kenneth Casey, Maceo Pinkard) - 2:06Recorded in New York City on December 3, 1965 (tracks 1, 2, 6 & 9), December 6, 1965 (tracks 4, 8, 11 & 12), and December 7, 1965 (tracks 3, 5, 7 & 10)

Personnel
Gary McFarland – marimba, electric piano
Joe Newman, Clark Terry - trumpet, flugelhorn
Bob Brookmeyer – valve trombone
Toots Thielemans - harmonica, guitar
Barry Galbraith - guitar
Bob Bushnell – electric bass
Mel Lewis, Grady Tate – drums
Passage 14:
More Blues and the Abstract Truth
More Blues and the Abstract Truth is an album by American jazz composer, conductor and arranger Oliver Nelson featuring performances recorded in 1964 for the Impulse! label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 4 stars, stating: "Unlike the original classic Blues and the Abstract Truth set from three years earlier, Oliver Nelson does not play on this album. He did contribute three of the eight originals and all of the arrangements but his decision not to play is disappointing... The emphasis is on blues-based pieces and there are some strong moments even if the date falls short of its predecessor".

Track listing
All compositions by Oliver Nelson except as noted

"Blues and the Abstract Truth" - 5:14
"Blues O'Mighty" (Hodges) - 6:48
"Theme from Mr. Broadway" (Brubeck) - 5:45
"Midnight Blue" (Neal Hefti) - 4:06
"The Critic's Choice" - 2:21
"One for Bob" - 6:07
"Blues for Mr. Broadway" (Brubeck) - 8:12
"Goin' to Chicago Blues" (Count Basie, Jimmy Rushing) - 4:37
"One for Phil" - 3:58 Bonus track on CD reissue
"Night Lights" (Arnold Shaw) - 2:46 Bonus track on CD reissueRecorded on November 10, 1964 (tracks 4 & 6–9), and November 11, 1964 (tracks 1–3, 5 & 10).

Personnel
Oliver Nelson - arranger, conductor
Thad Jones, Danny Moore (tracks 1 & 5) - trumpet
Phil Woods - alto saxophone
Ben Webster - tenor saxophone (tracks 4 & 7)
Phil Bodner - tenor saxophone, English horn
Pepper Adams - baritone saxophone
Roger Kellaway - piano
Richard Davis – bass
Grady Tate – drums
Passage 15:
Groovin' with Golson
Groovin' with Golson is the sixth album by saxophonist Benny Golson featuring performances recorded in 1959 and originally released on the New Jazz label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow states, "the hard bop music does indeed groove in its own fashion".

Track listing
All compositions by Benny Golson except where noted.

"My Blues House" - 9:25
"Drum Boogie" (Roy Eldridge, Gene Krupa) - 3:59
"I Didn't Know What Time It Was" (Richard Rodgers, Lorenz Hart) - 5:25
"The Stroller" - 9:18
"Yesterdays" (Jerome Kern, Otto Harbach) - 5:54

Personnel
Benny Golson - tenor saxophone
Curtis Fuller - trombone
Ray Bryant - piano
Paul Chambers - bass
Art Blakey - drums
Passage 16:
At the Village Vanguard
At the Village Vanguard (subtitled You Took the Words Right Out of My Heart) is a live album by jazz drummer Paul Motian recorded at the Village Vanguard and originally released on the German JMT label. Recorded in 1995 it features performances by Motian with guitarist Bill Frisell and tenor saxophonist Joe Lovano. The album was rereleased on the Winter & Winter label in 2005.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Thom Jurek awarded the album 3½ stars, stating: "This is a prime Motian date, not to be missed this time around".

Track listing
All compositions by Paul Motian except as indicated

"You Took the Words Right Out of My Heart" (Ralph Rainger, Leo Robin) - 7:58
"Abacus" - 9:38
"Folk Song for Rosie" - 10:19
"The Owl of Cranston" - 8:30
"5 Miles to Wrentham" - 4:46
"Yahllah" - 14:16
"The Sunflower" - 8:33
"Circle Dance" - 5:04Recorded at the Village Vanguard in New York City in June 1995

Personnel
Paul Motian - drums
Bill Frisell - electric guitar
Joe Lovano - tenor saxophone
Passage 17:
Thinking of Home
Thinking of Home is an album by jazz saxophonist Hank Mobley recorded on July 31, 1970 but not released by the Blue Note label until 1980. It features performances by Mobley with trumpeter Woody Shaw, pianist Cedar Walton, guitarist Eddie Diehl, bassist Mickey Bass, and drummer Leroy Williams. This was Mobley's 26th (and final) recording for Blue Note.

Reception
Allmusic awarded the album 4½ stars and the review by Scott Yanow stated "It is only fitting that Hank Mobley would record one of the last worthwhile Blue Note albums before its artistic collapse (it would not be revived until the 1980s) for his consistent output helped define the label's sound in the 1960s".On All About Jazz Richton Guy Thomas said "this is a fitting farewell session. It features the powerful trumpet playing of Woody Shaw and the exciting pianist Cedar Walton. Hank Mobley's playing has a fire that ought to remind you of the Jazz Messengers, as it should since he was one of the original members of the group ... Thinking of Home should remind diehard jazz fans (and enlighten those newer to the genre) that Mobley was an innovative and stimulating tenor saxophonist who consistently swung".

Track listing
All compositions by Hank Mobley except where noted

"Suite: Thinking of Home/The Flight/Home at Last" - 10:06
"Justine" - 13:04
"You Gotta Hit It" - 5:34
"Gayle's Groove" (Mickey Bass) - 5:33
"Talk About Gittin' It" - 8:38

Personnel
Hank Mobley — tenor saxophone
Woody Shaw — trumpet
Cedar Walton — piano
Eddie Diehl — guitar
Mickey Bass — bass
Leroy Williams — drums
Passage 18:
Opus de Jazz
Opus de Jazz (subtitled A Hi-Fi Recording for Flute, Vibes, Piano, Bass, Drums) is an album by American jazz vibraphonist Milt Jackson featuring performances recorded in 1955 and released on the Savoy label.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow stated: "This is not essential, but it is enjoyable music."

Track listing
"Opus de Funk" (Horace Silver) – 13:28
"Opus Pocus" (Ozzie Cadena) – 7:25
"You Leave Me Breathless" (Ralph Freed, Frederick Hollander) – 6:27
"Opus and Interlude" (Cadena) – 6:30Recorded in New York City on October 28, 1955

Personnel
Milt Jackson – vibes
Frank Wess – tenor saxophone, track 2; flute, tracks 1, 3 and 4
Hank Jones – piano
Eddie Jones – bass
Kenny Clarke – drums
Passage 19:
The Jazz Skyline
The Jazz Skyline is an album by American jazz vibraphonist Milt Jackson featuring performances recorded in 1956 and released on the Savoy label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Bob Rusch states: "This session has interest as an example of Milt Jackson's mid-'50s work in a non-Modern Jazz Quartet context. And despite the many critical assertions that the vibist was restrained by pianist John Lewis' direction, his playing here revealed no marked change".

Track listing
"Lover" (Lorenz Hart, Richard Rodgers) - 7:45
"Can't Help Lovin' Dat Man" (Oscar Hammerstein II, Jerome Kern) - 4:35
"The Lady Is a Tramp" (Hart, Rodgers) - 7:18
"Angel Face" (Hank Jones) - 6:38
"Sometimes I'm Happy" (Irving Caesar, Vincent Youmans) - 7:15
"What's New?" (Johnny Burke, Bob Haggart) - 3:51

Personnel
Milt Jackson – vibes
Lucky Thompson - tenor saxophone
Hank Jones - piano
Wendell Marshall - bass
Kenny Clarke – drums
Passage 20:
Jazz Contemporary
Jazz Contemporary is an album by American jazz trumpeter Kenny Dorham featuring performances recorded in 1960 and released on the Time label. The album features the recording debut of pianist Steve Kuhn.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 2½ stars and stated "The results are not quite essential but everyone plays up to par... It's fine hard bop, the modern mainstream music of the period".

Track listing
All compositions by Kenny Dorham except as indicated"A Waltz" - 5:34
"Monk's Mood" (Thelonious Monk) - 8:09
"In Your Own Sweet Way" (Dave Brubeck) - 8:01
"Horn Salute" - 8:27
"Tonica" - 2:57
"This Love of Mine" (Sol Parker, Henry W. Sanicola Jr., Frank Sinatra) - 6:49Bonus tracks on CD reissue:

"Sign Off" - 5:29
"A Waltz" [alternate take] - 5:36
"Monk's Mood" [alternate take] (Monk) - 2:53
"This Love of Mine" [alternate take] (Parker, Sanicola, Sinatra) - 7:55Recorded on February 11 (tracks 2, 3, 7, 8, 10) and February 12, 1960 (tracks 1, 4-6, 9).

Personnel
Kenny Dorham - trumpet
Charles Davis - baritone saxophone
Steve Kuhn - piano
Jimmy Garrison (tracks 2, 3, 7, 8 & 10), Butch Warren (tracks 1, 4-6 & 9)  - bass
Buddy Enlow - drums