Passage 1:
Naas River
The Naas River, a perennial stream of the Murrumbidgee catchment within the Murray–Darling basin, is located in the Australian Capital Territory, Australia.

Course
The river rises in the southern ranges of Namadgi National Park, south of Canberra, with flow generated by runoff and melting snow during spring from the Snowy Mountains. The river flows generally north, joined by four minor tributaries, before reaching its confluence with the Gudgenby River, south of Tharwa; descending 266 metres (873 ft) over its 26-kilometre (16 mi) course.The watershed boundary of the Naas River defines the southern and south-eastern border of the Australian Capital Territory with New South Wales.

See also

List of rivers of Australia § Australian Capital Territory
Australian Alps Walking Track
Passage 2:
Pangi Territory
Pangi Territory is an administrative area in Maniema Province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The  headquarters is the town of Pangi.
The Elila River flows through Pangi territory, entering the Lualaba River to the west.
The territory is divided into the Babene chiefdom and the Beia, Ikama, Wakabango and Wasongola sectors.
Most of the territory is inhabited by the Lega people, as are the adjoining Mwenga and Shabunda territories.
As of 1972 there were still a few Pygmies living among the Baziri tribe of Lega people.
Before independence the territory had 97,380 inhabitants of whom 35,518 were in urban and mining agglomerations.
Passage 3:
Rhône-Alpes
Rhône-Alpes (French pronunciation: [ʁon alp] (listen)) was an administrative region of France. Since 1 January 2016, it is part of the new region Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. It is located on the eastern border of the country, towards the south. The region was named after the river Rhône and the Alps mountain range. Its capital, Lyon, is the second-largest metropolitan area in France after Paris. Rhône-Alpes has the sixth-largest economy of any European region.

Geography
Rhône-Alpes is located in the southeast of France. The neighboring (pre-2016) regions are Bourgogne (Burgundy) and Franche-Comté to the north, Auvergne to the west, Languedoc-Roussillon to the southwest, and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur to the south. The eastern part of the region is in the Alps, and borders Switzerland and Italy. The highest peak is Mont Blanc, on the French-Italian border. The central part of the region comprises the river valleys of the Rhône and the Saône. The confluence of these two rivers is at Lyon. The western part of the region contains the start of the Massif Central mountain range. The region also borders or contains major lakes such as Lake Geneva (Lac Léman) and Lake Annecy. The Ardèche flows through the southwest portion of the region, where it has carved the deepest gorge in Europe.
As with the rest of France, French is the only official language of the region. Until the mid-20th century, Arpitan was widely spoken in the whole region, while many of the inhabitants of the south spoke varieties of Occitan; both are in steep decline in this region. There are immigrant populations from Armenia, Italy, North Africa, Poland and Portugal, and elsewhere.
Rhône-Alpes is made up of the following departments:

Ain (01). Capital: Bourg-en-Bresse
Ardèche (07). Capital: Privas
Drôme (26). Capital: Valence
Isère (38). Capital: Grenoble
Loire (42). Capital: Saint-Étienne
Rhône (69). Capital: Lyon
Savoie (73). Capital: Chambéry
Haute-Savoie (74). Capital: AnnecyAnd, since 2015, Metropolis with territorial collectivity statute:

Metropolis of Lyon (69). Capital: Lyon

Lakes
There are six main lakes in Rhône-Alpes:

Lac de Paladru
Lac d'Aiguebelette
Lac du Bourget
Lac d'Annecy
Lac de Nantua
Lac Léman

Prefectures
Prefectures listed in descending order of size:

Lyon (Rhône)
Grenoble (Isère)
Saint-Étienne (Loire)
Valence (Drôme)
Chambéry (Savoie)
Annecy (Haute-Savoie)
Bourg-en-Bresse (Ain)
Privas (Ardèche)

History
Although there have been people in Rhône-Alpes since pre-historic times, the earliest recorded settlers of the region were the Gauls (Celts). Cities such as Lyon were founded by them and the region traded with both northern and southern Europe. Most of the area became part of Roman territory during the invasion of Celtic Gaul led by Julius Caesar and was at various times part of the regions of Lugdunensis and Gallia. Lyon itself became a major city in the Roman Empire.
The region, excepting Savoy, was part of the Merovingian and Carolingian Kingdoms before becoming a royal territory under the Capetians. As it became a royal territory early on in French history, its cultural, political and economic influences and developments paralleled those of greater France. (See History of France.)

Transportation
Rhône-Alpes is a major European transit hub, linking northern France and Europe to the Mediterranean area. Millions travel along its motorways in summertime from Paris to holidays at the sea. The E15 Euroroute (Britain to Spain) runs through the region. There are international airports at Lyon, Grenoble and Saint-Étienne and many other minor airports and airfields.
The region is also a transport hub for the rail network with the TGV running through Lyon from Paris and the north, to the Mediterranean. A high-speed rail link is planned from Lyon to Turin.

Economy
Rhône-Alpes is a prosperous region which can be seen by its per capita GDP of about €31,231 ($40,000), which is higher than the French average, and an average income of €35,910 ($50,246), its economy second in size only to Île-de-France in France. This can be attributed to the diversity of the production in different sectors. The region is one of the Four Motors for Europe.

Industry, in particular:
Light engineering and high-tech
Mechanical engineering in the area of Annecy
Precision machining in the area of Cluses
Services, in particular:
High-tech industries, nanotechnology, biotechnology especially in Grenoble with 62,300 jobs in these sectors thanks to the presence of the Polygone Scientifique, Inovallée and some large companies as Schneider Electric.
Optic and design in Saint-Étienne
Tourism with the Alps (for skiing), Lyon and Grenoble (for culture) and the Ardèche (adventure sports/camping) particularly popular
Education, with major universities in Lyon, Grenoble and Saint-Étienne.In the past mining, especially coal mining was an important sector, particularly around Saint-Étienne, although this has declined since the 1970s.
The area of the region that lies close to Switzerland has an economy linked to that of Geneva. This area forms a hinterland for the Geneva hub.The Triangle of Lyon, Saint-Étienne and Grenoble contribute a GDP of €145 billion to the region. Add Valence to it, it is almost €150 billion. In addition, Lyon alone has a Gross Metropolitan Product of about €85 billion.
The region has been part of Alps–Mediterranean Euroregion since 10 July 2007.

Major cities
Winter Olympics
Rhône-Alpes region has hosted the Winter Olympics three times; in 1924 at Chamonix, 1968 at Grenoble, and 1992 at Albertville.

Tourism
Situated between Paris and the Côte d’Azur, on the border with both Switzerland and Italy, and offering access to two international airports (Lyon and Geneva), rail connections and a vast motorway network, the Rhône-Alpes region is at "the crossroads of Europe".
Boasting eight natural parks and peerless sites such as Mont Blanc and the Gorges de l’Ardèche, Rhône-Alpes offers a wide range of different landscapes: mountains, vineyards and gentle valleys, fields of lavender and olive groves.
Every form of sport is readily available, set against a natural backdrop: skiing, hiking, mountain biking or even paragliding and canoeing. Besides hosting three Winter Olympics games due to its being the largest ski area in the world, Rhône-Alpes is the second most important golfing region in France with over 60 courses.

Enthusiasts of art and culture will not be disappointed by the region's Villes d’Art: Lyon, which is classified by UNESCO as a World Heritage site, Annecy, Grenoble, Chambéry, and Saint-Étienne.
And last but not least, connoisseurs of good food and wine will be spoilt for choice by the range of local specialties available to taste along with a Beaujolais or a Côtes du Rhône, and by the sheer number of famous restaurants (with Paul Bocuse at the top of the list) in the region.

Gastronomy
Lyon is noted as a gastronomic centre of France and specialities served in its traditional bouchons include Lyon sausage, sophisticated salami (known there as "rosette"), tripe and quenelles. In the east of the region the food has an Alpine flavour with dishes such as fondue, raclette common, gratin dauphinois and gratin savoyard. The region is also famous for its Bresse poultry and the many varieties of cheese including Tomme de Savoie, Bleu de Bresse, Reblochon, Saint-Marcellin and Vacherin du Haut-Doubs.Wines in this region include Beaujolais, Côtes du Rhône and Savoy wine. Chartreuse liqueur is made in the region.
Lyon is the home of very typical and traditional restaurants: the bouchons. Bouchons are usually convivial restaurants serving local dishes, and local wines.
Lyon is famous for its morning snacks, the mâchons, made up of local charcuterie, especially the rosette and usually accompanied by Beaujolais red wine. Traditional local dishes include saucisson de Lyon (sausage), andouillette, coq au vin, esox (pike) quenelle, gras double (tripe cooked with onions), salade lyonnaise (lettuce with bacon, croûtons and a poached egg), marrons glacés and cardoon au gratin.

See also
List of châteaux in Rhône-Alpes
Transport in Rhône-Alpes
Passage 4:
Minsk Region
Minsk Region, also known as Minsk Oblast or Minsk Voblasts (Belarusian: Мі́нская во́бласць, romanized: Minskaja voblasć, IPA: [ˈmʲinskaja ˈvobɫasʲtsʲ]; Russian: Минская о́бласть, romanized: Minskaya oblast), is one of the regions of Belarus. Its administrative center is Minsk, although it is a separate administrative territorial entity of Belarus. As of 2011, the region's population is 1,411,500.

Geography
Minsk Region covers a total of 39,900 km2, about 19.44% of the national total area. Lake Narach, the largest lake in the country, is located in the northern part of the region. There are four other large lakes in this region: Svir (8th largest), Myadel (11th largest), Syalyava (14th largest) and Myastro (15th largest). It is the only region of Belarus whose border is not part of the international border of Belarus.

History
Beginning the 10th century, the territory of the current Minsk Region was part of Kievan Rus', the Principality of Polotsk, and later it was included in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. With the unification of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Kingdom of Poland, the territory became part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.
In 1793, as a result of the second partition of Polish territory, the area was annexed by Russia as the Minsk Region. During the collapse of the Russian Empire due to the Civil War, the western part was annexed to Poland in 1921, while the east became Soviet Belarus.
The Minsk region was established on 15 January 1938, based on the amendment of the Constitutional Law of the USSR. As of 20 February 1938, the area included 20 districts.  Following the Soviet invasion of Poland on September 17, 1939, the former Eastern lands of the Second Polish Republic were annexed in accordance with the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact partitioning Poland and added to the Minsk Region.
On 20 September 1944, by the decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, the Gressky, Kopyl, Krasnoslobodski, Luban, Slutsky, Starobin, Starodorozhski districts and the city of Sluck were removed from the Minsk region and transferred to the newly formed Bobruisk Region.
On 8 January 1954, by the decree of the USSR Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, the Nesvizhski and Stolbtsovsky districts from the abolished Baranovichi Region, as well as the Glusk, Gressky, Kopyl, Krasnoslobodski, Luban, Slutsky, Starobin, Starodorozhski districts and the city of Sluck from the abolished Bobruisk Region, were added to the Minsk Region.
In 1960, following the abolition of Molodechno Region, its southern part became the northern part of the Minsk Region.

Tourism
The number of travel agencies in Minsk Region grew from twelve in 2000 to seventy in 2010. The most popular tourist destinations of the region are Zaslavskoye Lake, the Zhdanovichi area which has health resorts, Nesvizh Palace and its surroundings, as well as the alpine ski resorts of Logoysk and Silichi.

Administrative subdivisions
The Minsk Region comprises 22 districts (raions), 307 selsovets, 22 cities, 8 city municipalities, and 20 urban-type settlements.

Districts of Minsk Region
Cities and towns
Population of cities and towns in Minsk Region

Demographics
See also
Administrative divisions of Belarus
Villages in Minsk Region
Passage 5:
Port Blair
Port Blair (pronunciation ) is the capital city of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a union territory of India in the Bay of Bengal. It is also the local administrative sub-division (tehsil) of the islands, the headquarters for the district of South Andaman and is the territory's only notified town.
Port Blair serves as the entry point for visiting the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Port Blair is connected with mainland India by both air and sea. It is a two to three-hour flight from mainland India to Port Blair's Veer Savarkar International Airport, and three to four days by sea to reach Kolkata, Chennai, or Visakhapatnam from Haddo Wharf in Port Blair. It is home to several museums and a major naval base INS Jarawa of the Indian Navy, along with sea and air bases of the Indian Coast Guard, Andaman and Nicobar Police, Andaman and Nicobar Command, the first integrated tri-command of the Indian Armed Forces and the Indian Air Force.Port Blair is also famous for the historic Cellular Jail and other small islands like Corbyn's Cove, Wandoor, Ross Island, Viper Island and so forth, which were once home to British colonists. Port Blair has been selected as one of the cities to be developed as a smart city under the Smart Cities Mission.

History
Pre-history
The indigenous inhabitants are the Andamanese. Radiocarbon dating studies of the kitchen refuse dumps from the mounds excavated by the Anthropological Survey of India at Choladari near Port Blair indicate human occupation for at least 2,000 years, although they are likely to have diverged from the inhabitants of the mainland significantly earlier.

Modern history
In 1789 the Government of Bengal established a penal colony on Chatham Island in the southeast bay of Great Andaman, named Port Blair in the honour of Archibald Blair of the East India Company. After two years, the colony moved to the northeast part of Great Andaman and was named Port Cornwallis after Admiral William Cornwallis. However, there was much disease and death in the penal colony, and the government ceased operating it in May 1796.
In 1824 Port Cornwallis was the rendezvous of the fleet carrying the army to the First Anglo-Burmese War. In the 1830s and 1840s, shipwrecked crews who landed on the Andamans were often attacked and killed by the natives, alarming the British government. In 1855, the government proposed another settlement on the islands, including a convict establishment, but the Indian Rebellion of 1857 forced a delay in its construction.
However, since the rebellion provided the British with a lot of new prisoners, it made the new Andaman settlement and prison an urgent necessity. Construction began in November 1857 at the renovated Port Blair, avoiding the vicinity of a salt swamp which seemed to have been the source of many of the old colony's problems. The penal colony was originally on Viper Island. The convicts, mostly political prisoners, suffered life imprisonment at hard labour under cruel and degrading conditions. Many were hanged, while others died of disease and starvation. Between 1864 and 1867 a penal establishment was also built with convict labour on the northern side of Ross Island. These structures now lie in ruins.As the Indian independence movement continued to grow in the late 19th century, the enormous Cellular Jail was constructed between 1896 and 1906 to house Indian convicts, mostly political prisoners, in solitary confinement. The Cellular Jail is also known as Kala Pani (translated as "Black Waters"), a name given to it due to the torture and general ill-treatment towards its Indian convicts.
The airport at Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar's capital, has been named Veer Savarkar International Airport. The commemorative blue plaque on India House fixed by the Historic Building and Monuments Commission for England reads "Vinayak Damodar Savarkar 1883–1966 Indian patriot and philosopher lived here."
In World War II the islands were occupied by the Japanese on 23 March 1942 without opposition from the garrison. From 1943 to 1944, Port Blair served as the headquarters of the Azad Hind government under Subhas Chandra Bose. British forces returned to the islands in October 1945.Although affected by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami, Port Blair survived sufficiently to act as a base for relief efforts in the islands.

Climate
Port Blair has a tropical monsoon climate (Köppen climate classification Am), with little variation in average temperature and large amounts of precipitation throughout the year. All months except January, February and March receive substantial rainfall.

Tourism
Port Blair being the capital city of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is the entry point for all tourism related activities. Tourists first have to arrive to Port Blair before progressing on to any other islands in Andaman. At Port Blair, the major tourist places to visit are the Cellular Jail, Corbyns Cove Beach, North Bay Island, Ross Island renamed to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Island, Chidiatapu, Wandoor and other museums that are present within city limits. Entry charges are applicable to some of the tourist places.

Demographics
As of 2011 India census, Port Blair had a population of 100,608. Males constitute 52.92% (53,247) of the population and females 47.07% (47,361). 9.3% of the population is under the age of 6 years.

Language
Bengali is the most spoken language of the city, followed by Telegu, Hindi and Tamil.

Religion
The most common religion is Hinduism, followed by Christianity and Islam.

Literacy
Port Blair has an average literacy rate of 89.76%, higher than the national average that is 74.04%. In Port Blair, male literacy is 92.79%, and female literacy is 86.34%.

Administration
The Port Blair Municipal Council, abbreviated as PBMC is the ruling civic body administering the city of Port Blair, the capital and the largest city in the Indian union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The council came into existence on 2 October 1957 after the assent by the President of India to the Andaman & Nicobar Islands (Municipal Board’s) Regulation, 1957 Act on 11 March 1957. The council comprises a total of 24 wards after the recent delimitation and the expansion of the city limits with the merger of few other villages to the existing 18 wards previously.The recent elections for the council were held in 2022. U. Kavitha from ward 24 a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party was elected as the chairperson for the first term which commenced from 16 March 2022. On 14 March 2023, Telugu Desam Party councilor S. Selvi from ward 5 was elected as the chairperson for the second year term of commencing from 16 March 2023 as part of the joint candidature from the BJP-TDP Alliance.

PBMC electoral history
Education
B.Ed
Tagore Government College of Education

Degree
Andaman and Nicobar college
Jawaharlal Nehru Government College

Engineering
Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Institute of Technology

Law
Andaman Law College

Medicine
Andaman and Nicobar Islands Institute of Medical Sciences

Gallery
See also
Cellular Jail
Charles James Lyall
Vinayak Damodar Savarkar
Ross Island
Havelock Island
Passage 6:
Notogawa, Shiga
Notogawa (能登川町, Notogawa-chō) was a town located in Kanzaki District, Shiga Prefecture, Japan.
Notogawa Station (Location: N35.179899,E136.165913) is the only Japan Railway station in Higashiomi. The station is a rapid stop on the JR Biwako Line, located between stations in Omi-Hachiman to the east and Hikone to the west. The town shares a small border with Lake Biwa to the northwest.

History
On January 1, 2006, Notogawa, along with the town of Gamō (from Gamō District), was merged into the expanded city of Higashiōmi.

Demographics
As of 2005, the town had an estimated population of 23,385 and a density of 751.45 persons per km². The total area is 31.12 km².

Sister town
Taber, Alberta, Canada.

External links
 Media related to Notogawa, Shiga at Wikimedia Commons
Passage 7:
Mian Haji Sahib
Mian Haji Sahib is a town in the Islamabad Capital Territory of Pakistan. It is located at 33° 22' 50N 73° 20' 40E with an altitude of 479 metres (1574 feet).
Passage 8:
Bann Na Mohra
Bann Na Mohra is a town in the Islamabad Capital Territory of Pakistan. It is located at 33° 27' 50N 73° 22' 10E with an altitude of 562 metres (1847 feet).
Passage 9:
Miller Electric
Miller Electric is an American arc welding and cutting equipment manufacturing company based in Appleton, Wisconsin. Miller Electric, has grown from a one-man operation selling products in northeastern Wisconsin to what is today one of the world's largest manufacturers of arc welding and cutting equipment.

Overview
In 1929, Niels Miller designed a small arc welder for "stick welding" that could operate on the electrical supplies in rural Wisconsin that was lighter and less expensive than the DC rotary units previously available. The first machine was built from recycled scrap steel and coil windings in his basement.In 1935, Miller Electric Mfg. Co. was incorporated. Al Mulder, Miller's sole engineer, invented the world's first high frequency-stabilized AC industrial welder, making AC welding practical for use in factories and construction.Miller Electric developed the Millermatic in 1971, combining the previously separate units of power source and wire feed into one unit, bringing MIG welding within reach of a wider market.
In 1993, following the death of the company's heir, Miller Electric was purchased by Illinois Tool Works (ITW), a multi-national company based near Chicago.
The company regularly exhibits new products at trade fairs including SEMA.

ITW
ITW had much in common with Miller Electric in terms of business philosophy, and in 1992 it was ranked as one of the 100 "Most Admired American Corporations" by Fortune magazine. ITW brought to Miller the resource base and global perspective needed to further strengthen the company's position as a world leader in the welding industry.In 2002, it became the first U.S. welding equipment manufacturer to comply with the new ISO 9001:2000 standard.

Products list
Miller electric manufactures a lot of products related to arc welding. Some of the important products they manufacture are listed below:

Welders
MIG(GMAW)
TIG(GTAW)
Stick(SMAW)
Engine Driven
Wire Feeders
Welding Intelligence
Welding safety equipment
Helmets
Weld Mask
Caps
Safety Glasses
Gloves
Apparel
Fume Extractors
Respiratory
Passage 10:
John C. Petersen
John C. Petersen (November 2, 1842 – July 10, 1887) was an American butcher and farmer from Appleton, Wisconsin who served as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from Outagamie County. He was elected in 1878 as a Greenbacker, and was re-elected the next year as a "Greenback Democrat" (even though he was opposed by a Democrat).

Background
Petersen was born in Glückstadt, Holstein-Glückstadt (now part of Germany but then ruled by the Kings of Denmark) on November 2, 1842. He received a common school education, and became a butcher by occupation. Petersen came to Wisconsin in 1862, and settled in Appleton, where he was elected to various township offices .

Public office
Petersen was elected to the assembly for 1879 from Outagamie County's 1st Assembly district (The City of Appleton, and the Towns of Buchanan, Center, Freedom, Grand Chute and Kaukauna), receiving 1,096 votes against 1,000 for Republican B. T. Rogers (Rep.), and 423 for incumbent William Smith Warner (who had been elected as an "Independent Democrat" but was now the Democratic nominee). He was assigned to the standing committee on public improvements.He was re-elected for 1880 by 963 votes, against 779 for D. J. Brothers, a Democrat, and 434 for P. P. Wing, a Republican. Even though he was re-elected running against a Democrat, he is listed in the 1880 Wisconsin Blue Book as a "Greenback Democrat": there were 71 Republicans, 27 Democrats, Petersen (listed separately as "Greenback Democrat") and one Greenback (David Bean) listed in the Assembly roster for that year. He remained on the public improvements committee. Petersen was not a candidate for re-election for 1881, and was succeeded by Democrat Henry Clay Sloan.

Personal life
Petersen married Wilhelmina "Minnie" Freiberg, born in Stettin, Pomerania in 1849; they were the parents of five children. Petersen was in the butcher business at Appleton for about twenty-five years, then moved to a farm in Grand Chute township which he operated until his retirement, and then returned to Appleton, where he died on July 10, 1887. His widow survived him, living until 1932. They are buried at Riverside Cemetery in Appleton.
Passage 11:
Virginia, Lempira
Virginia (Spanish pronunciation: [biɾˈxinja]) is a municipality in the Honduran department of Lempira.
Virginia is located in Lempira Honduras and shares a border with El Salvador. Many Virginians travel to El Salvador to do their shopping, because the Honduran cities are far away from Virginia.
It is one of the smallest municipalities of the Lempira department. It is 15 km or 30 minutes away from Mapulaca if accessed through Gracias.

History
It was founded back in 1830. In the national division of 1889 it was one municipality of Candelaria.

Geography
It is situated in a semi flat place and surrounded by many hills.  The predominant vegetation corresponds to the sub tropical dry forest. In the municipality capital there are some inclined streets.

Boundaries
Its boundaries are: 

North : Candelaria municipality.
South : El Salvador.
East  : Piraera municipality.
West  : Mapulaca municipality.
Surface Extents: 36 km2

Resources
Since it is on the border with El Salvador, it is much easier for people to go there to establish commercial activities. Also there are more and better jobs on the other side of the border, with the advantage of receiving their wages in US dollars. It is not an ideal location for coffee plantations, therefore corn and beans crops became important (even though they are for local consumption); followed by cattle raising. Like the rest of the department, it has electricity and mobile communication services.

Population
Population: The amount of inhabitants was 2,734 and according to INE Honduras estimates, there will be 2,574 in 2015.
Villages: 5
Settlements: 35

Demographics
At the time of the 2013 Honduras census, Virginia municipality had a population of 2,548. Of these, 97.06% were Mestizo, 2.90% Indigenous (2.86% Lenca) and 0.04% Black or Afro-Honduran.

Tourism
As for the remaining 15 km, although this dirt road is not in the best condition, it is still an easy drive. A half-hour visit will be enough to see all there is to see in the municipality capital. For those who are interested in rural and quiet towns, this is a good place to visit. Surprisingly, the mobile phone signal from El Salvador is stronger than the Honduran signal. Since it is near the Lempa River, the local pastime is going there to bathe. The local holidays and festivals attract many visitors.

Local Holidays: "Santa Lucia" day on December 13.
Passage 12:
Darial, Pakistan
Darial is a town in the Islamabad Capital Territory of Pakistan. It is located at 33° 23' 35N 73° 19' 45E with an altitude of 494 metres (1624 feet).
Passage 13:
Alamnagar
Alamnagar (community development block) is one of the administrative divisions of Madhepura district in the Indian state of Bihar. The block headquarters are located at a distance of 58 km from the district headquarters, namely, Madhepura. The name of Alamnagar is named for Shah Alamgir. Almost alls caste of Hindus and Muslims live together. Khara Budhama is also attached in Alamnagar vidhan shabha from udakishunganj. Khara is located 12 km from Alamnagar.

Geography
Alamnagar is located at 25°32′56″N 86°54′40″E

Panchayats
Panchayats in Alamnagar community development block are: Bispatti, Basanbara, [Khurhan, Bargaon, Singhar, Itahari, Alamnagar North, Alamnagar South, Alamnagar East, Northua Bhagipur, Kujauri, Gangapur, Kishanpur Ratwara and Khapur.

Demographics
In the 2001 census Alamnagar Block had a population of 129,226.
Passage 14:
Swan Miara
Swan Miara (ساون میرا) is a village and union council (an administrative subdivision) of Mansehra District in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is located in the south of the district where it borders Abbottabad District.Formerly it was a part of the Princely State of Amb.
Passage 15:
Thirukkanur
Thirukkanur is a village in the union territory of Puducherry, India. It is one of 16 villages located in Mannadipet commune panchayat of the Villianur taluk. It is bordered by the state of Tamil Nadu both to the east and west.
Thirukkanur has a primary health center, police station, post office, electricity office and registrar office.  The area is mainly oriented to agriculture. Thirukkanur market is the only bazaar catering to the needs of about 20 nearby villages.  There is no major industry within the purview area of the Thirukkanar Police Station.


== Notes ==
Passage 16:
Pulaski High School
Pulaski High School is a public high school in Pulaski, Wisconsin, United States, in Brown County (school district also serves parts of Shawano, Outagamie and Oconto counties), that serves students in grades 9 through 12.  Its mascot is the Red Raider.

History
The original school was built in 1909, with additions throughout the next five decades. In 1975, the high school took over an existing school along with other additions, most notably an indoor swimming pool. Another new building was built in 1998 due to a rapidly growing population.

Academics
Pulaski offers Advanced Placement classes. The student to teacher ratio is 18 to 1.

Demographics
Over 90 percent of the student body is Caucasian, while 2.9 percent are American Indian, 2.5 percent are Hispanic, 1.4 percent are African American and 1.0 percent are Asian. The school is split 51/49 male to female, while just over 22 percent of the school is eligible for free or reduced lunch.

Athletics
State championships
Boys' Basketball: 2013
Wrestling: 1969, 1974, 1993 (all runner-up)
Football: 1980 (runner-up)
Softball: 1996 (runner-up)
Cross Country: 2004 (runner-up)
Rugby: 2009, 2010, 2014, 2015, 2018Pulaski has also had a number of individual state champions.
In 2016, Pulaski citizens privately funded a $4.9 million athletic expansion project, including a new football stadium, track, baseball and softball fields, as well as expanding the tennis facilities.

Incident involving Mike McCarthy
On February 27, 2019, the school became the center of attention during a basketball game against Notre Dame Academy after former Green Bay Packers head coach Mike McCarthy was berating officials during the game. A complaint was submitted to the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association following the incident. McCarthy's behavior was criticized as "unacceptable" from the Notre Dame Academy and Pulaski athletic director Janet Batten. A day later, McCarthy apologized for the incident.

Music
The Red Raider Marching Band performed in the 2007, 2012, and 2017 Rose Parades and in the 2003 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City.

Notable alumni
Jacqui Banaszynski, Pulitzer Prize-winning writer
Jeremy Borseth, NFL punter
Carey Lohrenz, F-14 Tomcat pilot
Neil Worden, NFL fullback
Passage 17:
Jerome Quinn
Jerome Quinn (May 23, 1908 – February 29, 2008) was a Wisconsin politician and realtor.Born in Green Bay, Wisconsin, Quinn was a realtor and served on the Green Bay Common Council, the Brown County, Wisconsin Board of Supervisors, the local Board of Education, and the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1955 until 1973. He was a Republican.
Passage 18:
Baranya County
Baranya (Hungarian: Baranya vármegye, pronounced [ˈbɒrɒɲɒ ˈvaːrmɛɟɛ]; German: Branau; Croatian: Baranjska županija) is a county (vármegye) in southern Hungary. It is part of the Southern Transdanubia statistical region and the historical Baranya region, which was a county (comitatus) in the Kingdom of Hungary dating back to the 11th century. Its current status as one of the 19 counties of Hungary was established in 1950 as part of wider Soviet administrative territorial reform following World War II. It is bordered by Somogy County to the northwest, Tolna County to the north, Bács-Kiskun County and the Danube to the east, and the border with Croatia (part of which is formed by the Drava River) to the south.
As of the 2011 census, it had a population of 386,441 residents. Of the 19 counties of Hungary (excluding Budapest), it is ranked 10th by both geographic area and population. Its county seat and largest city is Pécs.

Etymology
In German, it is known as Komitat Branau, and in Croatian as Baranjska županija (Baranja).
The county was probably named after its first comes 'Brana' or 'Braina'.

Geography
This county has a total area of 4,430 km2 (1,710 sq mi) – 4.76% of Hungary, it is divided in Upper Baranya and Lower Baranya.
The northern part of the county is a mountain area with large forests, the Mecsek Mountains. The central areas are shared between the Baranya Hills and Villány Mountains. The very eastern and southern parts are flat.
The highest point in the county is Zengő in the Mecsek Mountains, at 682 metres. This is also the highest point of the mountain range.
Baranya is rich in mineral and thermal water, and also in other resources. 98% of Hungary's coal resources are found here.

Neighbours
Tolna County in the North.
Bács-Kiskun County in the East. (across the Danube river)
Croatia in the south (across the Drava river) – Osijek-Baranja County and Virovitica-Podravina County
Somogy County in the Northwest.

Climate
The climate of Baranya is a mix of continental and temperate, which makes it unique in Hungary, as the rest of the country is primarily continental. Its milder climate is due to its southern location and relative proximity to the Mediterranean Sea in comparison to other parts of the country, leaving it with warmer winters. It has the highest average annual rainfall of the Hungarian counties and a high amount of sunshine hours.

History
The area has been inhabited since ancient times. Before the Hungarian tribes conquered the area, it was inhabited by Slavs and Avars. Stephen I founded an episcopal seat here.
In 1526, the county was occupied by Ottomans and was freed in 1689. Its medieval borders remained unchanged until 1919. According to the peace treaty of Trianon, the southern part of the county (1,163 km2, 449 sq mi) reverted to Slavic rule (present-day Croatia). The re-organizing of the counties (1950) brought only minor changes (town of Szigetvár got there).
Baranya has the largest number of minorities in Hungary (more than twice the country average), providing home to 34% of the German minority the so-called Danube Swabians, and 32% of the Southern Slav minorities in Hungary.
The Stifolder or Stiffoller Shvove are a Roman Catholic subgroup of the so-called Danube Swabians. Their ancestors once came ca. 1717 - 1804 from the Hochstift Fulda and surroundings, (Roman Catholic Diocese of Fulda), and settled in the Baranya. They retained their own German dialect and culture, until the end of WW2. After WW2, the majority of Danube Swabians were expelled to allied-occupied Germany and allied-occupied Austria as a result of the Potsdam Agreement.Only a few people can speak the old Stiffolerisch Schvovish dialect. Also a salami is named after these people. Electoral History

Demographics
In 2015, it had a population of 371,110 and the population density was 84/km2.

2011 census
As of the census of 2011, there were 386,441 residents, 160,040 households, and 105,646 families living in the county. The population density was 226 inhabitants per square mile (87/km2). There were 167,453 housing units at an average density of 98 per square mile (38/km2).
There were 160,040 households, of which 63.2% were one-family households, 1.4% were multi-family households, 32.1% were one-person households, and 3.4% were other non-family households. Elderly individuals living alone were 15.9% of all households. The average household size was 2.34.
There were 105,646 families, of which 44.1% were married couples or consensual unions living together with children, 36.4% were couples without children, 16.7% were single females with children, and 2.8% were single males with children. The average family size was 2.82.
The age breakdown of the county was 20.1% under the age of 20, 7.0% between ages 20 and 24, 27.4% aged 25 to 44, 28.3% aged 45 to 64, and 17.2% aged 65 or older. The gender makeup of the county was 47.2% male and 52.8% female.
Religious adherence in the county was 46.8% Roman Catholic, 6.4% Reformed (Calvinist), 1.2% Evangelical (Lutheran), 0.3% Greek Catholic, 0.1% Orthodox, and 1.5% other religions. The non-religious were 16.2% and atheists were 1.5%, with 26.0% declining to answer.

2001 census
As of the census of 2001, there were 407,448 residents, 151,956 households, and 115,946 families living in the county. The population density was 238 inhabitants per square mile (92/km2). There were 156,632 housing units at an average density of 92 per square mile (35/km2).
There were 151,956 households, of which 68.5% were one-family households, 3.8% were multi-family households, 24.9% were one-person households, and 2.7% were other non-family households. Elderly individuals living alone were 13.1% of all households. The average household size was 2.60.
There were 115,946 families, of which 48.7% were married couples or consensual unions living together with children, 35.4% were couples without children, 13.7% were single females with children, and 2.1% were single males with children. The average family size was 2.87.
The age breakdown of the county was 23.0% under the age of 20, 8.1% between ages 20 and 24, 28.0% aged 25 to 44, 26.0% aged 45 to 64, and 14.9% aged 65 or older. The gender makeup of the county was 47.5% male and 52.5% female.
Religious adherence in the county was 64.2% Roman Catholic, 8.7% Reformed (Calvinist), 1.5% Evangelical (Lutheran), 0.5% Greek Catholic, 0.1% Orthodox, and 0.8% other religions. The non-religious were 13.4%, with 10.8% declining to answer.

Ethnicity
Besides the Hungarian majority, the main minorities are the Germans (approx. 22,000), Roma (17,000), Croats (6,000), and Serbs (500).
Total population (2011 census): 386,441
Ethnic groups (2011 census):
Identified themselves: 364,801 persons:

Hungarians: 315,713 (86.54%)
Germans: 22,150 (6.07%)
Romani: 16,995 (4.66%)
Croats: 6,343 (1.74%)
Others and indefinable: 3,600 (0.99%)Approx. 58,000 persons in Baranya County did not declare their ethnic group at the 2011 census.

Regional structure
Politics
County Assembly
The Baranya County Council, elected at the 2019 local government elections, is made up of 18 counselors, with the following party composition:

President of the Assembly
Members of the National Assembly
The following members elected of the National Assembly during the 2022 parliamentary election:

Municipalities
Baranya County has 1 urban county, 13 towns, 3 large villages and 284 villages. There are 301 municipalities.

Like Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Baranya is a county of extremes when it comes to regional structure. The county seat is one of the five largest cities (and three largest agglomerations) of Hungary, but more than 2/3 of the municipalities are small hamlets with a population under 500. Half of the county's population lives in the county seat or in its immediate vicinity, while 22% of the population lives in villages that have less than 1000 inhabitants.

Cities with county rights(ordered by population, as of 2011 census)

Pécs (156,049) – county seatTowns
Villages
 municipalities are large villages.

Gallery
Notes
Passage 19:
Majura Training Area
The Majura Training Area (MTA) is a facility belonging to the Australian Department of Defence located to the east of Mount Majura in the Majura district in the Australian Capital Territory, Australia. The MTA is used primarily by the Australian Army for the conduct of field exercises and weapon qualification shoots.  The MTA is located near to the Royal Military College, Duntroon and the Australian Defence Force Academy and is frequently used by these training establishments. Accommodation and support on the range is through 'Camp Blake', which consists of headquarters buildings, Q-Store, Mess, Staff accommodation and amenities and trainee accommodation and amenities.
The MTA contains a number of shooting ranges including the 600m Marksmanship Training Range (MTR), 25m Pistol range, Grenade range and multiple other ranges. Artillery ranges are also situated on the site and are designated as danger areas due to the risk of unexploded ordnance.
Passage 20:
Krasnovishersky District
Krasnovishersky District (Russian: Краснови́шерский райо́н) is an administrative district (raion) of Perm Krai, Russia; one of the thirty-three in the krai. Municipally, it is incorporated as Krasnovishersky Municipal District. It is located in the northeast of the krai, in the valley of the Vishera River, and borders with the Komi Republic in the north, Sverdlovsk Oblast in the east, Cherdynsky District in the west, Solikamsky District in the south, and with the territory of the town of krai significance of Alexandrovsk in the southeast. The area of the district is 15,375 square kilometers (5,936 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Krasnovishersk. Population:  22,554 (2010 Census); 27,871 (2002 Census); 30,827 (1989 Census). The population of Krasnovishersk accounts for 71.4% of the district's total population.

Geography
The eastern part of the district is mostly mountainous, while the western part is mostly flat, with some hills with the height of about 190–220 meters (620–720 ft). The highest point of Perm Krai, Mount Tulymsky Kamen, is located in the district. There are many rivers in the district, including the Vishera River with its tributaries the Yazva, the Vels, the Uls, and many others. The town of Krasnovishersk is located 320 kilometers (200 mi) from the city of Perm. Natural resources of the district include diamonds, gold, oil, natural gas, and others.
The climate is temperate continental. The average annual temperature is +0.1 °C (32.2 °F); annual precipitation is 550–700 millimeters (22–28 in). Up to 87% of the district's territory is covered by forests. In the extreme northeast of the district the Vishera Nature Reserve is located.

History
The district was established on January 13, 1941. Until then, its territory was a part of Cherdynsky District. Krasnovishersk, the administrative center of the district, was granted town status on July 2, 1942.

Demographics
As of the 2002 Census, about 89.7% of district's population were Russians and 2.5% were the Komi people.

Economy
The industry of the district includes timber industry, pulp and paper mill, mining and food industry.

See also
Visherogorsk
Zagovorukha