Passage 1:
Breakfast at Tiffany's (song)
"Breakfast at Tiffany's" is a song by American alternative rock band Deep Blue Something. Originally appearing on their 1993 album 11th Song, it was later re-recorded and released on their 1995 album Home. Released as a single in July 1995, the song was the band's only hit in the United States, peaking at number five on the US Billboard Hot 100 in January 1996. Outside the United States, "Breakfast at Tiffany's" topped the UK Singles Chart and peaked within the top ten on the charts of Australia, Flanders, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, and Sweden.
Todd Pipes said in a Q magazine article about the promotion of "Breakfast at Tiffany's", "As the song had 'breakfast' in the title, radio stations thought it would be genius to have us on at breakfast time. We'd be up 'til 3 am and they'd wonder why we were pissed off playing at 6 am." Follow-up singles failed to match the success of "Breakfast at Tiffany's", hence the reason for the band's classification as a one-hit wonder.

Inspiration and composition
"Breakfast at Tiffany's" is sung from the point of view of a man whose girlfriend is on the verge of breaking up with him because the two have nothing in common. Desperate to find something, the man brings up the Audrey Hepburn film Breakfast at Tiffany's, and his girlfriend recalls that they "both kinda liked it." He argues that this should serve as enough motivation for them to work out their problems based on the notion that love will always find a way to make things work.
The film Roman Holiday inspired the lyrics of the song, but songwriter Todd Pipes thought that one of Hepburn's other films would make a better song title.

Critical reception
Brian Wahlert called "Breakfast at Tiffany's" "a cute, catchy song that should fit in well on adult contemporary, Top-40 and alternative radio" with memorable melody that makes it "a perfect single, along with the mildly repetitive, conversational lyrics of the chorus and the bright, acoustic guitar". However, Tom Sinclair of Entertainment Weekly was unimpressed. He called it "possibly the year's most innocuous single, 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' is distressingly prosaic pop from a wimpy-sounding Texas quartet"; he added that it lacked any "musical piquancy". The Houston Press listed the song as the second worst by an artist from Texas, after Vanilla Ice's "Ice Ice Baby". British magazine Music Week rated it five out of five, picking it as Single of the Week. They wrote, "Radio-friendly rock at its best from the Texan trio. A mighty, bright chorus, quirky lyrics and some great guitar work should enable it to come close in the UK to matching its Top Five placing Stateside." VH1 and Blender ranked the song number six on their list of the "50 Most Awesomely Bad Songs Ever".

Music video
The accompanying music video for "Breakfast at Tiffany's" features the band members arriving to a breakfast table and being served by butlers, beside the curb in front of Tiffany & Co. in Midtown Manhattan. At the end of the video a young woman dressed in a similar style to Holly Golightly's (Audrey Hepburn) from the beginning of the film, except dressed in white rather than black, walks past on the sidewalk, and takes off her sunglasses. The band is also seen performing the song in a field, and on the bed of a flatbed truck in NYC.

Track listings
US cassette singleA1. "Breakfast at Tiffany's" (LP version) – 4:11
A2. "Breakfast at Tiffany's" (Crunch mix) – 4:11
B1. "A Water Prayer" (LP version) – 3:20
B2. "Breakfast at Tiffany's" (LP version) – 4:11Australian CD and cassette single, UK CD single"Breakfast at Tiffany's" – 4:16
"A Water Prayer" – 3:19
"Sun" – 4:15UK cassette single and European CD single"Breakfast at Tiffany's" – 4:16
"A Water Prayer" – 3:19

Charts
Certifications
Release history
Other uses
On Top Gear, episode 8 of series 5, the song can be heard attempting to drown out a rattling from the dashboard of Jeremy Clarkson's Ferrari 612 Scaglietti.
In 2008, the song was used in a commercial in Slovakia for Orange cellular phone.
In 2010, the song appeared in a Saturday Night Live skit, with four friends (played by Will Forte, Jason Sudeikis, Bill Hader and Ryan Phillippe) talking during the verses and singing the choruses.
In August 2011, it was voted into fifth place by fans on Quietdrive's upcoming cover album, Your Record, Our Spin.
In May 2012, Episode 24 of New Girl highlighted the cast members dancing to this song. The group was listening to this song from Nick's mixtape where he was trying to convince himself to stay together with a likewise dissimilar girlfriend.
The song appeared in the fifth episode of the VH1 series Hindsight.
The song also appeared in the season 2 finale of Orange Is the New Black, eliciting a comment from a prison guard.
In 2018, the song was played on Netflix series Everything Sucks!.
Passage 2:
List of awards and honours received by Audrey Hepburn
Audrey Hepburn received numerous awards and honors during her career. Hepburn won, or was nominated for, awards for her work in motion pictures, television, spoken-word recording, on stage, and humanitarian work. She was five-times nominated for an Academy Award, and she was awarded the 1953 Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance in Roman Holiday and the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award in 1993, posthumously, for her humanitarian work. She won a record three BAFTA Awards for Best British Actress in a Leading Role, from five nominations, and she received a Lifetime Achievement Award in 1992. Hepburn received 10 Golden Globe Award nominations, winning two, and she was the recipient of the Cecil B. DeMille Award in 1990. She also won the 1954 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Play in Ondine, and she received a Special Tony Award in 1968.
Posthumously, Hepburn also received a number of awards and honors, including a Primetime Emmy Award for her television series Gardens of the World with Audrey Hepburn, while her contributions to a spoken-word recording titled Audrey Hepburn's Enchanted Tales earned her a Grammy Award. Hepburn stands as one of few entertainers who have won Academy, Emmy, Grammy, and Tony Awards. She has been honored on United States postage stamps, and she has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The American Film Institute has repeatedly recognized her talent, placing Hepburn third on its list of the top 100 female stars of all time and placing several of the films she starred in on its 100 best... lists.

E.G.O.T.
Academy Awards
The Academy Awards, popularly known as the Oscars, are presented annually by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) to recognize excellence of professionals in the film industry. Hepburn was nominated for five competitive awards, winning once. In addition, she was the recipient of the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award posthumously. Hepburn's son Sean H. Ferrer accepted the award on her behalf.

Emmy Awards
The Primetime Emmy Awards, presented by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (ATAS), honor American prime time television entertainment. Hepburn was the recipient of one Emmy Award posthumously.

Grammy Awards
The Grammy Awards are presented annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States for outstanding achievements in the music industry. Hepburn won one Grammy Award posthumously.

Tony Awards
The Antoinette Perry Awards for Excellence in Theatre, more commonly known as the Tony Awards, recognize achievement in live American theatre, and are presented by the American Theatre Wing and The Broadway League. Hepburn won one competitive Tony Award, and was the recipient of the Special Tony Award in 1968.

Major associations
BAFTA Awards
The BAFTA Awards, presented by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA), is an annual awards show to celebrate excellence in film, television, television craft, video games, and forms of animation. Hepburn was nominated five times for a competitive award, winning three. In addition, she was the recipient of a Lifetime Achievement Award in 1992.

Golden Globe Awards
The Golden Globe Awards are presented annually by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) to recognize outstanding achievements in the entertainment industry, both domestic and foreign, and to focus wide public attention upon the best in motion pictures and television. Hepburn was a 10-time nominee, winning twice. In addition, she received the Cecil B. DeMille Award in 1990.

New York Film Critics Circle Awards
The New York Film Critics' Circle Awards are given annually to honor excellence in cinema worldwide by an organization of film reviewers from New York City-based publications. Hepburn won two of her six competitive nominations.

Screen Actors Guild Awards
The Screen Actors Guild Awards, presented by the Screen Actors Guild (SAG), recognize outstanding performances by its members. Hepburn was the recipient of a posthumous Life Achievement Award.

Other arts recognition
In recognition of her work in the performing arts, besides those awards aforementioned, Hepburn received several other honors. In 1959, she won the Silver Shell for Best Actress at the San Sebastian International Film Festival for her work in The Nun's Story. In 1987, she was awarded the Commander of the National French Order of Arts and Letters (French: Commandeur de L'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres), and was a Gala Film Tribute honoree. In 1991, she received the American Academy of Achievement's Golden Plate Award, an honorary Bambi Award, and was an Honoree at both the Film Society of Lincoln Center's Gala Tribute and the USA Film Festival's Master Screen. Then, in 1992, Hepburn was awarded The George Eastman Award, given by George Eastman House for distinguished contribution to the art of film. She was posthumously awarded the 1996 Women in Film's Crystal Award for her efforts in expanding the role of women within the entertainment industry.

Humanitarian recognition
In recognition of her humanitarian work, Hepburn received the following honors:1976

Variety Club of New York's Humanitarian Award1988

UNICEF's International Danny Kaye Award for Children1989

Institute for Human Understanding's International Humanitarian Award1990

UNICEF's seventh annual ball honored Hepburn1991

Washington UNICEF Council's Children's Champion Award
Certificate of Merit for UNICEF Ambassadorship
Variety Clubs International's Humanitarian Award
UNICEF's Sidaci per L'infanzia" (Mayors for Children) Award
Children's Institute International's Champion of Children Award
Sigma Theta Tau International Audrey Hepburn Award named after Hepburn, given to individuals in recognition for their international work on behalf of children1992

Honorary Chair and Speaker at Alan Shawn Feinstein World Hunger Awards held at Brown University
Presidential Medal of Freedom1993

The Pearl S. Buck Foundation's Women's Award2000

Women's International Center's Living Legacy Award for "stunning contributions to humanity and enduring legacies given to humankind"2002

Bronze sculpture entitled "The Spirit of Audrey", by sculptor John Kennedy, installed at the public plaza at UNICEF headquarters in New York2006

Sustainable Style Foundation inaugurated the Style & Substance Award in honour of Audrey Hepburn to recognize high-profile individuals who work to improve the quality of life for children around the world (the award was given to Hepburn posthumously and received by the Audrey Hepburn Children's Fund)

Style recognition
Hepburn was the first of only three people to wear the Tiffany Diamond
Hepburn was a member of the International Best Dressed List, and was elevated into its Hall of Fame in 1961
Included in People's "50 Most Beautiful People in the World" in 1990
Received the Council of Fashion Designers of America's Lifetime of Style Award in 1992

Other honours

She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, at 1652 Vine Street.
She received "The Key to the City" in five American cities: Chicago and Indianapolis in 1990; Fort Worth, Texas, in 1991; and San Francisco and Providence, Rhode Island, in 1992.
In 1987, she was made a Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters from France
In 1990, she was honored with a new hybrid tulip in her name, as a tribute to the actress's career and to her long-time work on behalf of UNICEF, according to the Netherlands Flowerbulb Information Center. An official dedication ceremony took place at her family's former mansion Huis Doorn in Doorn, Netherlands.
In 1991, she was honored with a rose in her name. The rose was bred by Jerry F. Twomey at Leucadia, California.
In 1991, she received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement. Her Golden Plate was presented by Awards Council member Ralph Lauren.
"Audrey Hepburn Day" was proclaimed on 28 February 1991 by the mayor of Fort Worth, Texas, and on 10 April 1992 by the mayor of Providence, Rhode Island.
In 2003, the United States Postal Service issued a stamp illustrated by Michael J. Deas honouring her as a Hollywood legend and humanitarian. It has a drawing of her which is based on a publicity photo from the movie Sabrina. Hepburn is one of the few non-Americans to be so honoured.
In 2008, Canada Post issued a series of pre-paid postcards based on the work of Yousuf Karsh, one of which was a portrait of Hepburn.
In Arnhem, there is a square named after Audrey Hepburn.
KLM named a McDonnell Douglas MD-11 PH-KCE, Audrey Hepburn, in her honour.
Passage 3:
Fists of Legend
Fists of Legend (Korean: 전설의 주먹; RR: Jeonseolui Jumeok) is a 2013 South Korean sports drama film directed by Kang Woo-suk. It is based on the popular webtoon of the same title written by Lee Jong-gyu and illustrated by Lee Yoon-gyun. The film stars Hwang Jung-min, Yoo Jun-sang, Yoon Je-moon, Lee Yo-won, and Jung Woong-in.

Plot
A moment of bad luck derailed Deok-kyu's Olympic dreams and led him and his friends to jail. Jin-ho got out of jail quickly because of his rich parents, but Deok-kyu, Jae-seok, and Sang-hoon were not so lucky.
Years later, while running a noodle shop to earn extra money following an accident involving his daughter, Deok-kyu accepts an invitation to join a televised mixed martial arts tournament, Fists of Legend. A group of middle-aged men who used to be called "legends" during their teenage high school days take part in the "real action fighting" reality show, and the winner gets a prize of ₩20 million every round, for a total of ₩200 million (US$183,823). Among the contestants are Deok-kyu's old friends Sang-hoon, currently a manager at a large company who lacks in self-respect after getting passed over for a promotion, and Jae-seok, now a good-for-nothing guy who dreams of becoming a somebody.

Cast
Hwang Jung-min - Im Deok-kyuPark Jung-min young Deok-kyu
Yoo Jun-sang- Lee Sang-hoon
Gu Won - young Sang-hoon
Yoon Je-moon - Shin Jae-seok
Park Doo-shik - young Jae-seok
Lee Yo-won - Hong Gyu-min
Jung Woong-in - Son Jin-ho
Lee Jung-hyuk - young Jin-ho
Sung Ji-ru - Seo Kang-gook
Ji Woo - Im Soo-bin
Kang Shin-il - Director Jo
Kang Sung-jin - announcer
Kwon Hyun-sang - Author
Choi Hyo-eun - Eun-soo
Kwon Eun-soo - Writer Kwon
Kim Jae-yong - Writer Jae

Production
Filming began on July 15, 2012 at the Shin Joon-sub boxing gym in Namwon, North Jeolla Province, and wrapped on November 28, 2012 in Paju.Actor Yoo Jun-sang injured the cruciate ligament in his left knee while filming and underwent surgery on October 30, 2012.

Awards and nominations
2013 50th Grand Bell Awards

Nomination - Best Actor - Hwang Jung-min
Nomination - Best Supporting Actor - Yoo Jun-sang
Nomination - Best New Actor - Park Doo-shik
Nomination - Best New Actor - Park Jung-min
Nomination - Best Lighting - Kang Dae-hee
Passage 4:
On the Good Ship Lollipop
"On the Good Ship Lollipop" is a song composed by Richard A. Whiting with lyrics by Sidney Clare.  It was the signature song of child actress Shirley Temple. Temple first sang it in the 1934 film, Bright Eyes.In the song, the "Good Ship Lollipop" travels to a candy land.  The "ship" referred to in the song is an aircraft; the scene in Bright Eyes where the song appears takes place on a taxiing American Airlines Douglas DC-2.400,000 copies of the sheet music, published by Sam Fox Publishing Company, were sold, and one recording by Mae Questel (the cartoon voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl) reputedly sold more than two million copies. It finished at #69 in the survey AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs of top tunes in cinema in the United States in June 2004.
The song was parodied on an episode of The Simpsons from May 2000, the episode being "Last Tap Dance in Springfield". It was being sung as "On the Spaceship Lollipop" by Vicki Valentine (voiced by Tress MacNeille) herself spoofing Temple. The actual song was used on an earlier episode, "Treehouse of Horror III", which aired in October 1992 in which Shirley Temple was seen singing it during her concert before being devoured by King Homer, the sketch parodying King Kong.The song was also parodied on an episode of The Brady Bunch from February 1974, the episode being "The Snooperstar" in which Cindy becomes convinced that Mike's fussy client Penelope Fletcher (Natalie Schafer) is a talent scout and is trying to make her into the next Shirley Temple.
The moniker "Good Ship Lollipop" was famously used by Chicago Outfit underboss Ernest "Rocky" Infelice and his inner circle to refer to the Cicero Crew, which he ran in the mid-to-late 1980's with his second in command, Salvatore "Solly D" DeLaurentis. It is unknown as to how the crew gained the nickname.
In the 2007 film Shrek the Third, The Gingerbread Man is heard singing the song after Captain Hook threatens him.

Other recordings
1935: Rudy Vallee and His Connecticut Yankees, recorded for Victor on December 24, 1934 (Christmas Eve) (catalog No. 24838). This was very popular in 1935.
1935: Ted Fio Rito – recorded for Brunswick Records (catalog No. 7364) on August 1, 1935.
1952: Rosemary Clooney – on an unbreakable children’s record Columbia MJV138
1969: Tiny Tim covered the song, reaching #82 in Canada.
1980: Margaret Whiting (for her album Too Marvellous for Words).
Passage 5:
The Garbage Picking Field Goal Kicking Philadelphia Phenomenon
The Garbage Picking Field Goal Kicking Philadelphia Phenomenon (also known simply as The Philadelphia Phenomenon)  is a 1998 American television movie starring Tony Danza from Walt Disney Pictures.

Plot
Barney Gorman (Tony Danza) works hard as a garbageman in Philadelphia, but his career indirectly embarrasses his family. Barney's frustration is made worse by being a fan of the Philadelphia Eagles, who are mired in a slump. Due to a sticky lever on his garbage truck, Barney has (without realizing it) developed a very strong kick. One day at the city dump, Barney kicks a water jug extremely far and catches the attention of a group of Eagles executives, who are scouting the location for land to build a new stadium. The Eagles coach offers Barney a job as the team's new kicker, which the owner feels is an excellent publicity stunt in "giving an average Joe a shot at the NFL".
Barney joins the Eagles, but at first isn't really accepted by his teammates, especially his roommate, Bubba Downs. But once Barney starts playing and makes a lot of important field goals, his teammates and football fans all over town begin to love him, giving him the nickname "G-Man". Unfortunately, the fame and popularity begin to go to Barney's head, and he becomes conceited and talks down to his teammates. In the next game, Barney misses a potential game-winning field goal, knocking the Eagles out of contention for the playoffs.
Barney goes to a bar, depressed and lonely, when an attractive blonde woman approaches him. She asks him if he is Barney Gorman and if she could take a picture with him. Barney is caught off guard when the woman kisses him as the photo is being taken. She says thanks while giving him an alluring smile as she walks away.
Barney's mood goes from bad to worse and he is suspended from the team. He misses a date with his wife (Jessica Tuck), who then sees the picture of him kissing the blonde woman in the newspaper. When Barney arrives at home, he finds that his wife has kicked him out as well, leaving his suitcase outside the door with the photo from the newspaper.
After some soul-searching, Barney comes to his senses and apologizes to his wife, son, father, and his teammates. The Eagles let him back on the team, just in time for the final game of the season. Barney is given a chance to redeem himself as the game again comes down to a last-second field goal. The holder fumbles the snap, and Barney grabs it and scores the game-winning touchdown. At the end-of-season press conference, Barney remembers his roots as a garbageman and points out that garbagemen are deserving of respect, too, as they work hard to keep the city clean.

Cast
Tony Danza as Barney Gorman
Jessica Tuck as Marie Gorman, Barney's wife
Art LaFleur as Gus Rogenheimer
Jaime Cardriche as Bubba
Al Ruscio as Mr. Gorman, Barney's father
Ray Wise as Randolph Pratt
Julie Stewart as Eagles Recruiter
Gil Filar as Danny Gorman, Barney & Marie's sonThe cast also included many well known figures in the world of professional football playing minor roles or making cameo appearances. Jeffrey Lurie, the owner of the Philadelphia Eagles played Barney's friend who was seen at the cafe and had the line "This new Eagles owner must be a good guy."  The kicking stand-in for Tony Danza was Mike Vanderjagt, a Canadian football player and professional placekicker. The movie also featured sportscaster Chris Berman and NFL footage with Troy Aikman of the Dallas Cowboys.

Production
Most of the movie was actually filmed in Toronto, Ontario. Other filming locations for the movie included Hollywood, California and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

See also
List of American football films
Passage 6:
Saturday Breakfast
Saturday Breakfast was a New Zealand morning news and talkshow based on Breakfast, that aired on Saturday mornings from 7-9 am from 3 September 2011 until 15 December 2012 on TV One.

Presenters
Anchors
Tāmati Coffey and Nadine Chalmers-Ross (2012)
Tāmati Coffey and Toni Street (2012)
Rawdon Christie and Toni Street (2011-2012)

Show format
10 minutes of news, sport and weather is presented every half hour between 7:00 and 8:30. News is presented by Brooke Dobson. Weather, presented by Sam Wallace is presented from a location around the country, usually where an event is happening.
The show has interviews with newsmakers and/or TVNZ reporters. The rest of the show has entertainment/light-hearted/special interest segments presented by Toni Street and Tāmati Coffey.
The show was cancelled by TVNZ due to its lack of commercial sustainability, caused by the withdrawal of key sponsor Lotteries New Zealand. The last show was broadcast on 15 December 2012. This coincided with host Tāmati leaving TVNZ to go overseas, and Weather reporter Sam Wallace being elevated to the Weekday Breakfast weather reporter upon Tāmati's departure. Nadine will remain as Business host on the weekday show as will newsreader, Brooke Dobson, in her primary role as Auckland reporter.
Passage 7:
Tiffany Blue
Tiffany Blue is the colloquial name for the light medium robin egg blue color associated with Tiffany & Co., the New York City jewelry company created by Charles Tiffany and John Young in 1837. The color was used on the cover of Tiffany's Blue Book, first published in 1845.  Since then, Tiffany & Co. has used the color extensively on promotional materials like boxes and bags.
Since 1998, the Tiffany Blue color has been registered as a color trademark by Tiffany & Co. It is produced as a private custom color by Pantone, with PMS number 1837, the number deriving from the year of Tiffany's foundation.

See also
Lists of colors
Passage 8:
Daybreak Northern Ireland
Daybreak Northern Ireland (previously GMTV Northern Ireland) is the regional news strand for Northern Ireland provided for the ITV breakfast station ITV Breakfast.
Unlike the ITV plc-owned  regions, UTV - the ITV contractor for Northern Ireland - did not provide regional news broadcasts during Daybreak (previously GMTV). This was due to a dispute between UTV and GMTV which dates back to 1994 when UTV opted out of the national breakfast contractor in breach of their broadcasting licence to provide live coverage of the breaking news of the Combined Loyalist ceasefire.
GMTV Northern Ireland was rebranded as Daybreak Northern Ireland in September 2010, when GMTV was replaced by new breakfast programme, Daybreak. Regional bulletins aired three times each weekday, and included a look at the days main headlines, a travel news update, and a weather forecast.

Service
In January 1995, GMTV contracted the service out to Reuters, who then provided the GMTV national news service. The service was produced by ITN from March 2000. Macmillan Media, a company founded by former ITN and BBC correspondent Michael Macmillan, won the contract to provide news bulletins in 2005.
Macmillan Media took over from STV as the regional breakfast news provider in the Central Scotland and Northern Scotland regions in 2007.The Daybreak Northern Ireland service by Macmillan Media ended on Friday 21 December 2012, with UTV resuming production of the breakfast news opt-outs from January 2013 onwards.

The team
Sonia Butterworth (Now with U105)
Richard Cull
Lynda Fulford
Lindsey Armstrong (now freelancing with UTV after working at BBC Northern Ireland)
Vicki Hawthorne (now freelance, appears on Sky News)
Emma Johnston
Aideen Kennedy (now with UTV)
Barbara McCann (now with BBC Northern Ireland)
Siobhan McGarry
Maura O'Brien
Kirsteen O'Sullivan (Now with TV3)
Charlie Oundo
Paul Reilly (now with UTV)
Nicola Thompson (now with BBC)
Jane Veitch
Patricia Wilkinson (now with BBC Northern Ireland)
Adrian Horsman (now with Christian Aid Ireland)
Passage 9:
Stein Endresen
Stein Endresen (born 4 October 1959) is a Norwegian show jumping competitor.At the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, Endresen originally won the bronze medal as part of the Norwegian team in team jumping, together with Morten Djupvik, Geir Gulliksen, and Tony Andre Hansen. However the Norwegian team lost its bronze medal and finished tenth following the disqualification of Tony Andre Hansen.
Passage 10:
Breakfast Creek
The Breakfast Creek (Aboriginal: Barrambin) is a small urban stream that is a tributary of the Brisbane River, located in suburban Brisbane in the South East region of Queensland, Australia.

Course and features
Rising as the Enoggera Creek that drains the D'Aguilar Range in the D'Aguilar National Park, Breakfast Creek forms near Herston where it flows a short meandering course of 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) before reaching its confluence with the Brisbane River at Newstead, next to Newstead Park.  Travelling up the Brisbane River the creek is the first to join the river on its northern banks.
The heritage-listed Breakfast Creek Hotel is located near the confluence with the Brisbane River and is known for serving XXXX beer exclusively from wooden barrels.  Also here the Breakfast Creek Green Bridge is under construction.
The shorter race in the annual Bridge to Brisbane fun run starts at the Breakfast Creek bridge.

History
John Oxley and Allan Cunningham met members of an Aboriginal clan at the mouth of the creek in 1824. After they had breakfast at the site minor conflict with the clan arose after one of them grabbed Oxley's hat. Oxley named the waterway in remembrance of the incident.An important Aboriginal camping ground occupied the Breakfast Creek / Hamilton area until it was broken up by police raids in the 1860s. The camp was one of the major sources from which local Aboriginal people supplied the Moreton Bay colony with fish. It was also where Aboriginal leader Dalaipi spoke his famous "Indictments" which were published in the Moreton Bay Courier in 1858.One of the white first settlers on the creek was Patrick Leslie who in 1845 built the still-standing Newstead House. Brisbane's Cantonese community, who had established businesses in Fortitude Valley and built the Temple of the Holy Triad in 1886, settled in the flats around Breakfast Creek and Eagle Farm. During dry times in the early colony of Moreton Bay, when water from the Roma Street reservoir was depleted, supplies were carted from Breakfast Creek.Various streets close to Breakfast Creek were affected by Brisbane floods in 1893, 1974 and in 2011.

Bridges
A number of floods destroyed early bridges across the creek. The first permanent bridge was built in 1858 using ironbark. As the timber of the bridge eroded, a second metal bridge was built in 1889. As traffic levels over the bridge increased, it became necessary to build a third larger concrete bridge in 1958, which stands to this day (2017).Remnants of the second bridge can still be seen and are listed on the Brisbane Heritage Register.A new rail bridge as part of Cross River Rail is due for operation by 2025.

Gallery
See also
List of rivers of Australia § Queensland
Passage 11:
Newstead House, Brisbane
Newstead House is Brisbane's oldest surviving residence and is located on the Breakfast Creek bank of the Brisbane River, in the northern Brisbane suburb of Newstead, in Queensland, Australia. Built as a small cottage in the Colonial-Georgian style in 1846, the cottage was extended and today is painted and furnished in a late Victorian style.Newstead House is the oldest surviving home in Brisbane, but not the oldest surviving building, built in 1846, for Patrick Leslie and his wife Catherine (née McArthur). In 1847 he sold Newstead House to his brother-in-law John Clements Wickham (married to Anna McArthur), the Police Magistrate and Government Resident.Newstead House was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register in 1992.

History
Newstead House is said to have taken its name from Newstead Abbey, Nottinghamshire, England, a former Augustinian priory which became the Byron family home.The property was referred to as Newstead until it left the possession of J.C. Wickham in 1859 after which it became known as Newstead House.Newstead House was built as a residence by Brisbane's first architect and builder Andrew Petrie for fellow Scottish settler Patrick Leslie; it was soon acquired by Captain John Wickham. Then it was leased to Attorney-General Ratcliffe Pring. It was later leased, then sold, then leased again to merchant and Member of the Queensland Legislative Council George Harris. George Harris and his wife Jane (née Thorn) lived in the house for 27 years.A prominent Jewish businessman named Lewis Flegeltaub with his large family was in residence at Newstead House from 1891 to 1894; the family previously lived at Palma Rosa, another Brisbane heritage-listed mansion nearby.The Lysaght Brothers bought the property in March 1898 with the intention to demolish the house and build a factory that produced iron and rabbit-proof wire fencing. These plans to establish a factory at the property were abandoned due to the downturn in the agricultural sector.It was purchased by the Brisbane City Council in 1918 and was the residence of the superintendent of their council parks. The Council leased part of the property to the Historical Society of Queensland in 1934 and it was used to store historical records. In 1939, the Queensland Parliament created a Trust and ownership was transferred to the Newstead House Trust.
The building was occupied by American troops during World War II. There is an Australian–American War Memorial in the grounds in memory of this. It was dedicated on 3 May 1952 by the Queensland Governor, Sir John Lavarack.Other than the war-time occupation it was operated as a museum and research library by the Historical Society of Queensland (now known as the Royal Historical Society of Queensland) until 1973 when they moved to the Commissariat Store.Newstead House is now a museum. It is open to the public, and concerts are sometimes held at the house and grounds. 
Newstead House is now maintained by the Newstead House Board of Trustees assisted the Friends of Newstead, a volunteer group who also organise various events to attract visitors. Newstead Park is still managed and maintained by the Brisbane City Council.

Heritage listing
Newstead House was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register in 1992.

Newstead Park
Newstead Park is a significant historic park.The land originally formed a part of the land purchased by Patrick Leslie in 1845 on which he built Newstead House.In the 1920s, the Brisbane City Council constructed an electrical substation for its tramway system in the grounds of the House. Since the closure of the tram system in 1969 the substation was purchased by the Newstead House Board of Trustees and has been used as a Resource Centre and offices for management staff.
In May each year, the park is host to the commemoration of the Battle of the Coral Sea. The Australian-American monument in the park is dedicated to the United States service men and women for helping in the defence of Australia during World War II.A playspace featuring an "Alice through the Looking Glass" theme has been developed by the Brisbane City Council is located on the southern side of the park, near Newstead Avenue.

See also
Old Government House
Passage 12:
Tiffany Stiegler
Tiffany Stiegler (born January 14, 1984) is an American figure skater who competed in both pair skating and ice dancing. Competing in pairs with her brother Johnnie Stiegler, she won the bronze medal at the 1998 Sparkassen Cup on Ice and placed fourth at the 1999 World Junior Championships.

Personal life
Tiffany Stiegler was born on January 14, 1984, in Santa Monica, California. She is the sister of Stephanie and Johnnie, both of whom also competed in figure skating.
She married Joseph ("Woody") Woodrow Stahl on June 28, 2014.

Career
Tiffany Stiegler's first partner was her brother Johnnie, with whom she competed until 2003. They are the 1998 and 1999 U.S. pewter medalists and the 1997 junior national champions. They were coached by Irina Rodnina and Alexander Zaitsev in El Segundo, California. They represented the Los Angeles Figure Skating Club.In the 2003–04 season, Stiegler skated with Bert Cording. They placed 9th at the 2004 U.S. Championships.
In the 2004–05 season, Stiegler began competing in ice dancing with Sergei Magerovski. They won the pewter medal at the 2005 U.S. Championships. They were coached by Igor Sphilband and Marina Zueva in Canton, Michigan.Stiegler became a co-coach with her sister at the Toyota center in El Segundo, California.

Programs
With Magerovski
With Stiegler
Competitive highlights
GP: Grand Prix; JGP: Junior Series / Junior Grand Prix)

Pair skating with Stiegler
Pair skating with Cording
Ice dancing with Magerovski
Passage 13:
Andy Blankenbuehler
Andy Blankenbuehler (born March 7, 1970) is an American dancer, choreographer and director primarily for stage and concerts. He has been nominated for the Tony Award for Best Choreography five times, and has won three times: for In the Heights (2008), Hamilton (2016), and Bandstand (2017). Blankenbuehler's other Broadway choreography work includes 9 to 5, Bring it On: The Musical, and the 2016 Cats revival. Blankenbuehler was awarded the Kennedy Center Honor in 2018 for his work on Hamilton. He also choreographed the movie adaptation of Cats. Most recently he choreographed, directed and co-wrote Only Gold - a new musical with Music by Kate Nash at MCC Theater.

Life and career
Blankenbuehler was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, and is a 1988 graduate of St. Xavier High School and 1984 graduate of Nativity School in Cincinnati. He received his bachelor's degree from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas.
As a performer, he has appeared on Broadway in many musicals, from Guys and Dolls (1992–1995) to Fosse (1999–2001).His Broadway work as a choreographer includes the musicals In the Heights (2007–08) and 9 to 5 (2008–09). He won the Tony Award and Drama Desk Award for his choreography for In the Heights.  Other New York work includes choreography for the "Broadway By The Year:1930, 1938 and 1978" series, and the City Center Encores! productions of The Apple Tree (2006) and The Wiz (2009). He is the director and choreographer of Bring It On: The Musical, written by Jeff Whitty, with music by Lin-Manuel Miranda and Tom Kitt and lyrics by Lin-Manuel Miranda and Amanda Green, which premiered at the Alliance Theatre, Atlanta, Georgia, on January 16, 2011. This production also performed at the Ahmanson Theater in Los Angeles where Blankenbuehler won the 2011 L.A. Drama Critics Circle Award for Best Choreography.
Additionally, Blankenbuehler choreographed the Frank Wildhorn world premiere production of Waiting for the Moon. The show featured 6 full-length dance sequences, including one that lasted over 10 minutes. He was nominated for a Barrymore Award for Choreographing the show.
Blankenbuehler has choreographed for Bette Midler and directed, choreographed, and co-conceived the production "Nights On Broadway" at Caesars Palace.
Blankenbuehler appears briefly in the 2008 documentary Every Little Step about the 2006 Broadway revival of A Chorus Line, with his Polaroid shown as one of the people being cut from a callback for the show.
He choreographed the 2012 Broadway revival of Annie. He is the choreographer for the musical Hamilton (2015), both Off-Broadway and on Broadway. He received a special 2015 Drama Desk Award for Hamilton.  The award was described: "For his inspired and heart-stopping choreography in Hamilton, which is indispensable to the musical's storytelling. His body of work is versatile, yet a dynamic and fluid style is consistently evident. When it's time to 'take his shot,' Blankenbuehler hits the bull's-eye."  His choreography for Hamilton won the Tony Award for Best Choreography in 2016.
He both directed and choreographed a new musical, Bandstand, which premiered at the Paper Mill Playhouse (New Jersey) in October 2015. The music is by Richard Oberacker and book and lyrics by Robert Taylor and Oberacker. He directed and choreographed a developmental lab of this musical in August and September 2014, then titled Bandstand: A Musical.In 2016, Blankenbuehler choreographed the revival of the movie Dirty Dancing starring Abigail Breslin and Shane Harper. He also choreographed the revival of the Broadway musical Cats with previews beginning July 14 and an August 2 opening.

Awards and nominations
Passage 14:
Moon River
"Moon River" is a song composed by Henry Mancini with lyrics by Johnny Mercer. It was originally performed by Audrey Hepburn in the 1961 movie Breakfast at Tiffany's, winning an Academy Award for Best Original Song. The song also won the 1962 Grammy Awards for Record of the Year and Song of the Year.The song has been recorded by many other artists. It became the theme song for Andy Williams, who first recorded it in 1962 (and performed it at the Academy Awards ceremony that year). He sang the first eight bars of the song at the beginning of each episode of his eponymous television show and named his production company and venue in Branson, Missouri, after it; his autobiography is called "Moon River" and Me. Williams' version was never released as a single, but it charted as an LP track that he recorded for Columbia on a hit album of 1962, Moon River and Other Great Movie Themes. In 2022, Williams' rendition of the song was selected for preservation in the Library of Congress.The song's success was responsible for relaunching Mercer's career as a songwriter, which had stalled in the mid-1950s because rock and roll had replaced jazz standards as the popular music of the time. The song's popularity is such that it has been used as a test sample in a study on people's memories of popular songs. Comments about the lyrics have noted that they are particularly reminiscent of Mercer's youth in the southern United States and his longing to expand his horizons. Robert Wright wrote in The Atlantic Monthly, "This is a love sung [sic] to wanderlust. Or a romantic song in which the romantic partner is the idea of romance." An inlet near Savannah, Georgia, Johnny Mercer's hometown, was named Moon River in honor of him and this song.

Versions
Original
Mercer and Mancini wrote the song for Audrey Hepburn to sing in the film Breakfast at Tiffany's. The lyrics, written by Mercer, are reminiscent of his childhood in Savannah, Georgia, including its waterways. As a child, he had picked huckleberries in summer, and he connected them with a carefree childhood and Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn. Although an instrumental version is played over the film's opening titles, the lyrics are first heard in a scene where Paul "Fred" Varjak (George Peppard) discovers Holly Golightly (Hepburn) singing the song, accompanying herself on the guitar while sitting on the fire escape outside their apartments.There was an eruption of behind-the-scenes consternation when a Paramount Pictures executive, Martin Rackin, suggested removing the song from the film after a tepid Los Angeles preview. Hepburn's reaction was described by Mancini and others in degrees varying from her saying, "Over my dead body!" to her using more colorful language to make the same point.An album version was recorded by Mancini and his orchestra and chorus (without Hepburn's vocal) on December 8, 1960. It was released as a single in 1961 and became a number 11 hit in December of that year. Due to unpublished charts in Billboard, Joel Whitburn's Top Adult (Contemporary) Songs variously reported the song as a number 3 or number 1 easy listening hit. Mancini's original version was also featured in the film Born on the Fourth of July (1989). In 1993, following Hepburn's death, her version was released on an album titled Music from the Films of Audrey Hepburn. In 2004, Hepburn's version finished at number 4 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in American cinema.

Early recordings
"Moon River" was a hit single for Jerry Butler in late 1961. Released simultaneously with Mancini's, it reached number 11 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart and number 3 Easy Listening in December, two weeks before Mancini's recording reached the same chart ranking. British singer Danny Williams had a hit version of the song that reached number one in the UK in the final week of 1961. Although Andy Williams never released the song as a single, his LP Moon River and Other Great Movie Themes (1962), was certified gold in 1963 for selling one million units. The album reached number 3 on the Billboard Top 200, eventually selling more than two million copies by 1967. In 2002, a 74-year-old Andy Williams sang the song at the conclusion of the live NBC special telecast celebrating the network's 75th anniversary.In 2022, Andy Williams' recording of the song was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the National Recording Registry.

Chart history
Henry Mancini & OrchestraJerry ButlerDanny Williams

Later versions
Hundreds of versions of the song have been recorded and it has been featured in many media. Mercer recorded the song in 1974 for his album My Huckleberry Friend. In 2007, saxophonist Dave Koz recorded a version from his standards music album, At the Movies, sung by Barry Manilow. In 2013, Neil Finn and Paul Kelly performed the song on their Goin' Your Way Tour, during which their performance at the Sydney Opera House Concert Hall was recorded for the live album, Goin' Your Way, released the same year. The title of the album comes from a phrase in the song's chorus: "Wherever you're goin', I'm goin' your way". Lawrence Welk's 1961 instrumental version was featured in Mad Men season 6, episode 13, "In Care Of" (2013). A version of the song was featured in Asif Kapadia's documentary film, Amy (2015), about Amy Winehouse. Winehouse's version, sung at age 16 with the National Youth Jazz Orchestra in 2000, is the opening song in the film.The Telegraph listed, among prominent covers of the song, those by Frank Sinatra, Judy Garland, Sarah Vaughan, Louis Armstrong, Sarah Brightman and Chevy Chase (in the comedy film Fletch). Other stars who have covered the song include Rod Stewart in Fly Me to the Moon... The Great American Songbook Volume V (2010), which charted at No. 4 on the Billboard 200, Barbra Streisand in The Movie Album (2003), a Grammy-nominated gold album, and Frank Ocean, who released a cover on Valentine's Day 2018 that debuted in the Top 10 of the Billboard Hot R&B chart. Diffuser.fm named these the "Top 5 Alt-Rock" versions of the song: Morrissey, Glasvegas, R.E.M., The Killers and Josh Ritter. Jacob Collier's a capella cover won the 2020 Grammy Award for Best Arrangement, Instrumental or A Cappella.

See also
"Charade" (1963 song)
The Sweetheart Tree
"Days of Wine and Roses" (song)
Moon River radio program
List of UK Singles Chart number ones of the 1960s
Passage 15:
Some Enchanted Evening
"Some Enchanted Evening" is a show tune from the 1949 Rodgers and Hammerstein musical South Pacific.  It has been described as "the single biggest popular hit to come out of any Rodgers and Hammerstein show." Andrew Lloyd Webber describes it as the "greatest song ever written for a musical".The song is a three-verse solo for the leading male character, Emile, in which he describes first seeing a stranger, knowing that he will see her again, and dreaming of her laughter. He sings that when you find your "true love", you must "fly to her side, and make her your own, / Or all through your life you may dream all alone."

In South Pacific
The song appears in the first act of the musical. It is sung as a solo by the show's male lead, Emile de Becque, a middle-aged French expatriate who has become a plantation owner on a South Pacific island during World War II.  Emile falls in love with Ensign Nellie Forbush, an optimistic and naive young American navy nurse from Little Rock, Arkansas.  The two have known each other for only a few weeks, and each worries that the other may not return his or her love.  In the song, Emile expresses his romantic feelings for Nellie, recalling how they met at an officers' club dance and instantly were attracted to each other.  He describes a man seeing a stranger and instantly knowing he will see her again, hearing her laughter and dreaming of it. He says that when you find your "true love", you must "fly to her side, and make her your own"; otherwise, all your life you will "dream all alone".  He later asks her to marry him. The song is then reprised several times during the show by Nellie and/or Emile as their relationship experiences setbacks and reconciliations.
In the original Broadway production, "Some Enchanted Evening" was sung by former Metropolitan Opera star Ezio Pinza. Pinza won the Tony Award for Best Actor in 1950 for this role, and the song made him a favorite with audiences and listeners who normally did not attend or listen to opera. In the 2001 London revival of the show, Philip Quast won an Olivier Award for Best Actor for his role as Emile, and seven years later, international opera singer Paulo Szot won a Tony for his portrayal in the 2008 New York revival.In the film version of South Pacific, the first and second scenes of the play are switched around.  Because of the switch, Emile enters later in the film, and "Some Enchanted Evening" is not heard until nearly 45 minutes into the film, while in the original stage version it is heard about 15 minutes after Act I begins. In the film, the song is sung by Metropolitan Opera bass Giorgio Tozzi, who dubbed the singing for actor Rossano Brazzi. Tozzi's version finished at No. 28 on the 2004 American Film Institute list and television special, AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs, selecting the top 100 songs in American cinema.

Analysis
According to Popular Music in America, the song's "lush orchestration, expansive form, and above all its soaring melody" allow the singer and character (Emile) to "linger in the moment" of immediate infatuation. Gerald Mast's history of the American musical notes that the song is a climactic moment which reveals that two characters have fallen in love, and it expresses a seize-the-opportunity lyric: "When you find your true love ... Then fly to her side / And make her your own".  According to the running commentary on the 2006 Fox DVD release of the 1958 film version of South Pacific, Lehman Engel remembered that Oscar Hammerstein II wanted to write a song based around verbs but waited ten years to do so before he wrote this song, in which the verses are built around the verbs "see", "hear" and "fly".

Selected recorded versions
Many popular singers have recorded and performed "Some Enchanted Evening".  Perry Como's version was a #1 hit in 1949, and Frank Sinatra recorded the song several times.

Ezio Pinza (recorded April 18, 1949, Original Broadway cast recording of South Pacific). His single version reached No. 7 in the Billboard charts in 1949.
Perry Como (1949). His single reached No. 1 in 1949
Frank Sinatra (1949), (1963, including a duet with Rosemary Clooney), (1967). The 1949 version reached the No. 6 position in the Billboard charts.
Bing Crosby (1949), recorded March 10, 1949 and reached No. 3 in the Billboard charts during a 20-week stay.
Jo Stafford - Autumn in New York  (1950). Her single version reached No. 4 in the Billboard charts in 1949.
Giorgio Tozzi (1958 for the film soundtrack; 1967 for the Lincoln Center revival cast recording with Florence Henderson)
Andy Williams (from the 1958 album Andy Williams Sings Rodgers and Hammerstein)
Jay & The Americans (1965). The Group's single version reached No. 13 on the Hot 100, Billboard charts in 1965.
José Carreras (1986) for a studio cast recording of South Pacific with Kiri Te Kanawa, Mandy Patinkin and Sarah Vaughan
Willie Nelson included the song on his 1988 album, What a Wonderful World
Barbra Streisand (from her No. 1 1993 album Back to Broadway)
The Temptations (1995, For Lovers Only)
Bryn Terfel  – Something Wonderful: Bryn Terfel Sings Rodgers and Hammerstein (1996)
Philip Quast for the 2002 London revival cast recording of South Pacific
Art Garfunkel (from his 2007 album Some Enchanted Evening)
Paulo Szot – South Pacific (The New Broadway Cast) (2008)
Bob Dylan (from his No.1 2015 album Shadows in the Night)

In popular culture
The song's title has been used as the name for albums, such as one by Blue Öyster Cult, one by Art Garfunkel and a cast album and PBS special of the revue "Some Enchanted Evening" – The Songs of Rodgers & Hammerstein. It was used as the name for television episodes in such TV series as The Simpsons, Last of the Summer Wine, Man About the House, and Bless This House.The song has been sung in films and on TV shows, for example by Harrison Ford in the film American Graffiti (1978 reissue), by an itinerant chanteuse in Crossing Delancey (1988), by Jon Bon Jovi on Ally McBeal in the episode "Homecoming" (2002) and by Bert in episode 102 on The Muppet Show (1977) to Connie Stevens. In April 2023, the song featured in the BBC Radio 4 series Soul Music.

Notes
Passage 16:
Tiffany Lam
Tiffany Lam or Tiffany Lam Man Lei (Chinese: 林敏俐, born 25 October 1980) is a former beauty queen from San Francisco. She held the title of Miss Hong Kong 2002 and Miss Chinese International 2003 runner up.

Early life
Lam was born in Hong Kong in 1980. During her childhood, she immigrated to San Francisco, California, where she studied for many years. Lam later attended the University of California, Davis. She is a member of Sigma Omicron Pi sorority, Delta Chapter. She then returned to Hong Kong to compete in the Miss Hong Kong 2002 pageant. Her younger cousin, Sandy Lau, won the 2009 Miss Hong Kong.

Miss Hong Kong 2002
She was chosen out of many delegates from USA and Canada to go back to Hong Kong to compete. She made the top 12 of the Miss Hong Kong 2002 pageant in early July. Three weeks later, she competed and won the Miss Hong Kong pageant final on its 30th anniversary, also winning two side awards, "Miss International Goodwill" and "Miss Modern Style".

Miss Chinese International 2003
After winning the Miss Hong Kong title, Lam became an ambassador for Hong Kong, representing Hong Kong at the Miss Chinese International Pageant 2003 in January 2003, where she finished second behind Rachel Tan of Kuala Lumpur.

Post-pageant
Lam subsequently starred in two TVB dramas, Net Deception and Not Just A Pretty Face. Her 1st runner up and friend, Victoria Jolly, also appeared in Not Just A Pretty Face. After she crowned her successor, Mandy Cho Man Li, Lam returned to San Francisco to continue her studies. She returned to Hong Kong to crown the 1st runner up of the Miss Chinese International Pageant 2004.
As of 2007, Lam works for her family restaurant business in the San Francisco Bay Area.

Awards
Miss Hong Kong 2002: Winner, Miss International Goodwill, and Miss Modern Style.
Miss Chinese International 2003: 1st runner up.

TVB Dramas
Net Deception (2002)
Not Just A Pretty Face (2003)