Passage 1:
List of capitals in the United States
This is a list of capital cities of the United States, including places that serve or have served as federal, state, insular area, territorial, colonial and Native American capitals.
Washington has been the federal capital of the United States since 1800. Each U.S. state has its own capital city, as do many of its insular areas. Most states have not changed their capital city since becoming a state, but the capital cities of their respective preceding colonies, territories, kingdoms, and republics typically changed multiple times. There have also been other governments within the current borders of the United States with their own capitals, such as the Republic of Texas, Native American nations, and other unrecognized governments.

National capitals
The buildings in cities identified in below chart served either as official capitals of the United States under the United States Constitution, or, prior to its ratification, sites where the Second Continental Congress or Congress of the Confederation met. The United States did not have a permanent capital under the Articles of Confederation.
The U.S. Constitution was ratified in 1787, and gave the Congress the power to exercise "exclusive legislation" over a district that "may, by Cession of particular States, and the acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United States." The 1st Congress met at Federal Hall in New York. In 1790, it passed the Residence Act, which established the national capital at a site along the Potomac River that would become Washington, D.C. For the next ten years, Philadelphia served as the temporary capital. There, Congress met at Congress Hall. On November 17, 1800, the 6th United States Congress formally convened in Washington, D.C. Congress has met outside of Washington only twice since: on July 16, 1987, at Independence Hall in Philadelphia, to commemorate the 200th anniversary of ratification of the Constitution; and at Federal Hall National Memorial in New York on September 6, 2002, to mark the first anniversary of the September 11 attacks. Both meetings were ceremonial.
On July 2, 1923, President Warren G. Harding commented in a speech (or, as a historic marker tells it, "reporters noted")  that the little town of Meacham, Oregon, was the nation's capital "all day long".

State capitals
Each state has a capital that serves as the seat of its government. Ten of the thirteen original states and 15 other states have changed their capital city at least once; the last state to move its capital city was Oklahoma in 1910.
In the following table, the "Since" column shows the year that the city began serving as the state's capital (or the capital of the entities that preceded it). The MSA/µSA and CSA columns display the population of the metro area the city is a part of, and should not be construed to mean the population of the city's sphere of influence or that the city is an anchor for the metro area. Fields colored light yellow denote that the population is a micropolitan statistical area.

Insular area capitals
An insular area is a United States territory that is neither a part of one of the fifty states nor a part of the District of Columbia, the nation's federal district. Those insular areas with territorial capitals are listed below.

Former national capitals
Two of the 50 U.S. states, Hawaii and Texas, were once de jure sovereign states with diplomatic recognition from the international community.

Hawaii
During its history as a sovereign nation (Kingdom of Hawaii, 1795–1893; Republic of Hawaii, 1894–1898), five sites served as the capital of Hawaii:

Waikīkī, 1795–1796
Hilo, 1796–1803
Honolulu, 1803–1812
Kailua-Kona, 1812–1820
Lahaina, 1820–1845
Honolulu, 1845–1898Annexed by the United States in 1898, Honolulu remained the capital, first of the Territory of Hawaii (1900–1959), and then of the state (since 1959).

Texas
During its history as a sovereign nation (Republic of Texas, 1836–1845), seven sites served as the capital of Texas:

Washington (now Washington-on-the-Brazos), 1836
Harrisburg (now part of Houston), 1836
Galveston, 1836
Velasco, 1836
West Columbia, 1836
Houston, 1837–1839
Austin, 1839–1845Annexed by the United States in 1845, Austin remains the capital of the state of Texas.

Native American capitals
Some Native American tribes, in particular the Five Civilized Tribes, organized their states with constitutions and capitals in Western style. Others, like the Iroquois, had long-standing, pre-Columbian traditions of a 'capitol' longhouse where wampum and council fires were maintained with special status. Since they did business with the U.S. Federal Government, these capitals can be seen as officially recognized in some sense.

Cherokee Nation
New Echota 1825–1832New Echota, now near Calhoun, Georgia, was founded in 1825, realizing the dream and plans of Cherokee Chief Major Ridge. Major Ridge chose the site because of its centrality in the historic Cherokee Nation which spanned parts of Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Alabama, and because it was near the confluence of the Conasauga and Coosawattee rivers. The town's layout was partly inspired by Ridge's many visits to Washington D.C. and to Baltimore, but also invoked traditional themes of the Southeastern ceremonial complex. Complete with the Council House, Supreme Court, Cherokee syllabary printing press, and the houses of several of the Nation's constitutional officers, New Echota served as the capital until 1832 when the state of Georgia outlawed Native American assembly in an attempt to undermine the Nation. Thousands of Cherokee would gather in New Echota for the annual National Councils, camping along the nearby rivers and holding long stomp dances in the park-like woods that were typical of many Southeastern Native American settlements.

Red Clay 1832–1838The Cherokee National council grounds were moved to Red Clay, Tennessee, on the Georgia state line, in order to evade the Georgia state militia. The log cabins, limestone springs, and park-like woods of Red Clay served as the capital until the Cherokee Nation was removed to Indian Territory (Oklahoma) on the Trail of Tears.
Tahlequah 1839–1907, 1938–presentTahlequah, in present-day Oklahoma, served as the capital of the original Cherokee Nation after Removal. After the Civil War, a turbulent period for the Nation which was involved in its own civil war resulting from pervasive anger and disagreements over removal from Georgia, the Cherokee Nation built a new National Capitol in Tahlequah out of brick. The building served as the capitol until 1907, when the Dawes Act finally dissolved the Cherokee Nation and Tahlequah became the county seat of Cherokee County, Oklahoma. The Cherokee National government was re-established in 1938 and Tahlequah remains the capital of the modern Cherokee Nation; it is also the capital of the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians.

Cherokee 20th century–present (Eastern Band of Cherokee)Approximately four to eight hundred Cherokees escaped removal because they lived on a separated tract, purchased later with the help of Confederate Colonel William Holland Thomas, along the Oconaluftee River deep in the Smoky Mountains of North Carolina. Some Cherokees fleeing the Federal Army, sent for the "round up", fled to the remote settlements separated from the rest of the Cherokee Territory in Georgia and North Carolina, in order to remain in their homeland. In the 20th century, their descendants organized as the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians; its capital is at Cherokee, North Carolina, in the tribally-controlled Qualla Boundary.

Muscogee Creek Nation
Hot Springs, Arkansas c. 1837–1866After Removal from their Alabama-Georgia homeland, the Creek national government met near Hot Springs which was then part of their new territory as prescribed in the Treaty of Cusseta. Because some Creeks fought with the Confederacy in the American Civil War, the Union forced the Creeks to cede over 3,000,000-acre (1,200,000 ha) - half of their land in what is now Arkansas.
Okmulgee 1867–1906Served as the National capital after the American Civil War. It was probably named after Ocmulgee, on the Ocmulgee river in Macon, a principle Coosa and later Creek town built with mounds and functioning as part of the Southeastern ceremonial complex. However, there were other traditional Creek "mother-towns" before removal. The Ocmulgee mounds were ceded illegally in 1821 with the Treaty of Indian Springs.

Iroquois Confederacy
Onondaga (Onondaga privilege c. 1450–present)The Iroquois Confederacy or Haudenosaunee, which means "People of the Longhouse," was an alliance between the Five and later Six-Nations of Iroquoian language and culture of upstate New York. These include the Seneca, Cayuga, Onondaga, Oneida, Mohawk, and, after 1722, the Tuscarora Nations. Since the Confederacy's formation around 1450, the Onondaga Nation has held privilege of hosting the Iroquois Grand Council and the status of Keepers of the Fire and the Wampum —which they still do at the official Longhouse on the Onondaga Reservation. Now spread over reservations in New York and Ontario, the Six Nations of the Haudenosaunee preserve this arrangement to this day in what they claim to be the "world's oldest representative democracy."

Seneca Nation of Indians
Jimerson Town (Allegany Reservation)
Irving (Cattaraugus Reservation)The Seneca Nation republic was founded in 1848 and has two capitals that rotate responsibilities every two years. Jimerson Town was founded in the 1960s following the formation of the Allegheny Reservoir. The Senecas also have an administrative longhouse in Steamburg but do not consider that location to be a capital.

Navajo Nation
Window RockWindow Rock (Navajo: Tségháhoodzání), Arizona, is a small city that serves as the seat of government and capital of the Navajo Nation (1936–present), the largest territory of a sovereign Native American nation in North America. It lies within the boundaries of the St. Michaels Chapter, adjacent to the Arizona and New Mexico state line. Window Rock hosts the Navajo Nation governmental campus which contains the Navajo Nation Council, Navajo Nation Supreme Court, the offices of the Navajo Nation President and Vice President, and many Navajo government buildings.

Unrecognized national capitals
There have been a handful of self-declared or undeclared nations within the current borders of the United States which were never officially recognized as legally independent sovereign entities; however, these nations did have de facto control over their respective regions during their existence.

Colonies of British America
Prior to the independence of the United States from Great Britain, declared July 4, 1776 in the Declaration of Independence and ultimately secured in the American Revolutionary War, several congresses were convened on behalf of some of the colonies of British America. However, these bodies did not address the question of independence from England, and therefore did not designate a national capital. The Second Continental Congress encompassed the period during which the United States declared independence, but had not yet established a permanent national capital.

Vermont Republic
Before joining the United States as the fourteenth state, Vermont was an independent republic known as the Vermont Republic (1777–1791). Three cities served as the capital of the Republic:

Westminster, 1777
Windsor, 1777–?
Castleton, ?–1791The current capital of the State of Vermont is Montpelier.

State of Franklin
The State of Franklin was an autonomous, secessionist United States territory created not long after the end of the American Revolution from territory that later was ceded by North Carolina to the federal government. Franklin's territory later became part of the state of Tennessee. Franklin was never officially admitted into the Union of the United States and existed for only four years.

Jonesborough, Tennessee, 1784–?
Greeneville, Tennessee, 1785?–?

State of Muskogee
The State of Muskogee was a Native American state in Spanish Florida created by the Englishman William Augustus Bowles, who was its "Director General," author of its Constitution, and designer of its flag. It consisted of several tribes of Creeks and Seminoles. It existed from 1799 to 1803. It had one capital:

Miccosukee, 1799–1803

Republic of West Florida
The Republic of West Florida was a short-lived nation that broke away from the territory of Spanish West Florida in 1810.  It comprised the Florida Parishes of the modern state of Louisiana and the Mobile District of the modern states of Mississippi and Alabama. (The Republic of West Florida did not include any part of the modern state of Florida.) Ownership of the area had been in dispute between Spain and the United States, which claimed that it had been included in the Louisiana Purchase of 1803. Within two months of the settlers' rebellion and the declaration of an independent nation, President James Madison sent American forces to peaceably occupy the new republic. It was formally annexed by the United States in 1812 over the objections of Spain and the land was divided between the Territory of Orleans and Territory of Mississippi. During its brief existence, the capital of the Republic of West Florida was:

St. Francisville, Louisiana, 1810

Republic of Indian Stream
The Republic of Indian Stream was an unrecognized independent nation within the present state of New Hampshire.

The area that would become Pittsburg, New Hampshire, 1832–1835

California Republic
Before being annexed by the United States in 1848 (following the Mexican–American War), a small portion of north-central California declared itself the California Republic, in an act of independence from Mexico, in 1846 (see Bear Flag Revolt).  The republic only existed a month before it disbanded itself to join the advancing American army; its claimed territory later became part of the United States as a result of the Mexican Cession.

The very short-lived California Republic was never recognized by the United States, Mexico or any other nation.  The flag, featuring a silhouette of a California grizzly bear, a star, and the words "California Republic", became known as the Bear Flag and was later the basis for the official state flag of California.
There was one de facto capital of the California Republic:

Sonoma, 1846

Confederate States
The Confederate States of America (C.S.A.) had two capitals during its existence. The first capital was established February 4, 1861, in Montgomery, Alabama, and remained there until it was moved to Richmond, Virginia, on May 29, 1861, after Virginia seceded on May 23.
The individual state capitals remained the same in the Confederacy as they had been in the Union (U.S.A.), although as the advancing Union Army used those cities for military districts, some of the Confederate governments were relocated or moved out of state, traveling along with secessionist armies.

Montgomery, February 4, 1861 – May 29, 1861
Richmond, May 29, 1861 – April 3, 1865

Historical state, colonial, and territorial capitals
Most of the original Thirteen Colonies had their capitals occupied or attacked by the British during the American Revolutionary War.  State governments operated where and as they could.  The City of New York was occupied by British troops from 1776 to 1783.  A similar situation occurred during the War of 1812, during the American Civil War in many Confederate states, and during the Pueblo Revolt of 1680–1692 in New Mexico.

Twenty-two state capitals have been a capital longer than their state has been a state, since they served as the capital of a predecessor territory, colony, or republic. Boston, Massachusetts, has been a capital city since 1630; it is the oldest continuously-running capital in the United States. Santa Fe, New Mexico, is the oldest capital city, having become capital in 1610 and interrupted only by the aforementioned Pueblo Revolt. An even older Spanish city, St. Augustine, Florida, served as a colonial capital from 1565 until about 1820, more than 250 years.
The table below includes the following information:

The state, the year in which statehood was granted, and the state's capital are shown in bold type.  NOTE: For the first thirteen states, formerly the Thirteen Colonies of Great Britain on the Atlantic seaboard, the year of statehood is shown as 1776 (United States Declaration of Independence) rather than the subsequent year each state ratified the 1787 United States Constitution. (See List of U.S. states by date of admission to the Union.)
The year listed for each capital is the starting date; the ending date is the starting date for the successor unless otherwise indicated.
In many cases, capital cities of historical jurisdictions were outside of a state's present borders. (Those cities are generally indicated with the two-letter abbreviation for the U.S. state in which the former administrative capital is now located.)

See also
History of the United States
List of largest cities of U.S. states and territories by population
List of state and territorial capitols in the United States
List of states and territories of the United States
Lists of capitals
Outline of United States history
Relocation of the United States Government to Trenton (1799)
Territorial evolution of the United States
Territories of the United States
Timeline of geopolitical changes

Explanatory notes
Passage 2:
Pesanggrahan, South Jakarta
Pesanggrahan is a district of South Jakarta one of the administrative cities which forms the capital territory of Jakarta, Indonesia. The Pesanggrahan River flows along the eastern edge of Pesanggrahan District. To the west of Pesanggrahan District is Tangerang and South Tangerang, Banten Province.
Pesanggrahan District was originally part of the Kebayoran Lama District, which was later made into a separate district.
A southwestern portion of the Jakarta Outer Ring Road and the Serpong-Jakarta railway passed through Pesanggrahan District.

Toponym
The name Pesanggrahan is derived from the name of the river Pesanggrahan along the eastern edge of the district.

Kelurahan (Administrative villages)
The district of Pesanggrahan is divided into five administrative villages (kelurahan):

Ulujami - area code 12250
Petukangan Utara - area code 12260
Petukangan Selatan - area code 12270
Pesanggrahan - area code 12320
Bintaro - area code 12330

List of important places

Budi Luhur University
Darunnajah Islamic Boarding School
Metro Mall Cipulir
Taman Swadharma
Passage 3:
Goleszewo
Goleszewo [ɡɔlɛˈʂɛvɔ] (German: Wilhelmshof) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Braniewo, within Braniewo County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland, close to the border with the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia. It lies approximately 13 kilometres (8 mi) east of Braniewo and 70 km (43 mi) north-west of the regional capital Olsztyn.
The village has a population of 51.
Passage 4:
Krasnolipie
Krasnolipie [krasnɔˈlipjɛ] (German: Schönlinde) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Braniewo, within Braniewo County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland, close to the border with the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia. It lies approximately 16 kilometres (10 mi) east of Braniewo and 70 km (43 mi) north-west of the regional capital Olsztyn.
The village has a population of 62.
Passage 5:
Valley New School
Valley New School (VNS) is a charter school in Appleton, Wisconsin operated by the Appleton Area School District. It has a capacity of 68 students in grades 7 through 12. The school operates through a project-based learning model, with the philosophy that 21st century skills and the process of learning is more important than learning a standard curriculum.

History
Valley New School opened in fall 2003 after several years of development. In its first year the school served students in seventh through tenth grade, but in the next two years it expanded one grade each year to serve students in seventh through twelfth grade. The original intention of the school was to expand each year to eventually serve upwards of two hundred students. However, it has remained small in keeping with its mission of creating a community.

Facility
Valley New School is located in downtown, Appleton, Wisconsin, on the second floor of the City Center. When the site of Valley New School was selected, it was decided that a location surrounded by the businesses, organizations and opportunities of downtown would be optimal. The City Center is near the bus station, which creates access to transportation in the Fox Valley. It is also situated near the Appleton Public Library. Pairs of students share computers located at their workstations. The school also has a music room, study room, woodshop, kitchen, library, science lab, an area dedicated to creating art and pottery.

Advisors
The teachers of Valley New School are referred to as advisors because they serve as coaches and mentors for the students. Advisors coach students in academics, projects and personal issues. The student advisor ratio is limited to 17:1. Each student receives individual time with his or her advisor weekly, along with daily interactions. Advisors also make up the Site Management Committee, which governs the daily operation of Valley New School.

Project process
Valley New School students use research projects aligning with their interests to gain school credit and cover state-issued learning standards. Although projects range across a wide variety of topics, each follows the same basic process. The process has five phases: proposal, research, planning, production and evaluation. In the proposal phase, students choose a topic and perform preliminary research to further understand what the topic is about. After that, they create a rationale detailing their interests in the project topic and a list of questions they plan to answer in the course of the project. The proposal phase ends when students meet with two advisors in a proposal meeting and discuss the plan for the project. Then students begin the research phase, during which they takes notes from a variety of sources. After students answers the questions they set out to resolve, they start the planning phase. In this phase, students meet with their advisors and decide how to represent their research in a product. Students then creates their products and written products in the production phase. In the evaluation phase, student write an analysis evaluating their progress over the course of the project as well as their learning and level of thinking. Finally, students meet with their advisors and discuss their performance and what they learned. Students earn school credit based on the time spent (typically 1 credit per 100 hours) and the quality of the project.

Math and reading
Because of Valley New School's lack of a formal class structure, math and reading are studied at an individual pace. Students learn math with an online program called ALEKS math and each student is required to spend an allotted half-hour each morning using the program. Reading is completed using a modified project process. Students create plans for a reading study, proposing their projects with their advisors. At the end of the year, students create a product that reflects what they read for the year.

Service learning
Valley New School requires each student to have a yearly service learning project, which use a modified project process. Student chooses a social issue within the community that interests them, find an organization in the area that addresses those issues, and perform service for them in effort to help solve the problem. Throughout the project, students document their experiences in time logs and produce an analysis document at the end of the project.

Awards and recognition
Valley New School is recognized as a lab school for the EdVisions organization, a national project-based schools cooperative. It received its first dissemination grant in 2008 and used the money to hire an alumnus for the development of a website and videos describing the school’s structure and philosophy. It also used the grant money to develop promotional brochures and DVDs and to fund workshops to help teachers, administrators and board members in the creation of charter schools in other areas. Valley New School received a distinguished merit for Charter School Innovator of the Year in 2009 and a Silver Charter School of the Year in 2008, both by the Wisconsin Charter School Association (WCSA). The school was nominated for School of the Year for the WCSA Annual Awards Gala in 2010. For achievements in service learning, Valley New School received the Youth Alliance 2010 group award from the Volunteer Center of East Central Wisconsin.

Notes
Passage 6:
Rhône-Alpes
Rhône-Alpes (French pronunciation: [ʁon alp] (listen)) was an administrative region of France. Since 1 January 2016, it is part of the new region Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. It is located on the eastern border of the country, towards the south. The region was named after the river Rhône and the Alps mountain range. Its capital, Lyon, is the second-largest metropolitan area in France after Paris. Rhône-Alpes has the sixth-largest economy of any European region.

Geography
Rhône-Alpes is located in the southeast of France. The neighboring (pre-2016) regions are Bourgogne (Burgundy) and Franche-Comté to the north, Auvergne to the west, Languedoc-Roussillon to the southwest, and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur to the south. The eastern part of the region is in the Alps, and borders Switzerland and Italy. The highest peak is Mont Blanc, on the French-Italian border. The central part of the region comprises the river valleys of the Rhône and the Saône. The confluence of these two rivers is at Lyon. The western part of the region contains the start of the Massif Central mountain range. The region also borders or contains major lakes such as Lake Geneva (Lac Léman) and Lake Annecy. The Ardèche flows through the southwest portion of the region, where it has carved the deepest gorge in Europe.
As with the rest of France, French is the only official language of the region. Until the mid-20th century, Arpitan was widely spoken in the whole region, while many of the inhabitants of the south spoke varieties of Occitan; both are in steep decline in this region. There are immigrant populations from Armenia, Italy, North Africa, Poland and Portugal, and elsewhere.
Rhône-Alpes is made up of the following departments:

Ain (01). Capital: Bourg-en-Bresse
Ardèche (07). Capital: Privas
Drôme (26). Capital: Valence
Isère (38). Capital: Grenoble
Loire (42). Capital: Saint-Étienne
Rhône (69). Capital: Lyon
Savoie (73). Capital: Chambéry
Haute-Savoie (74). Capital: AnnecyAnd, since 2015, Metropolis with territorial collectivity statute:

Metropolis of Lyon (69). Capital: Lyon

Lakes
There are six main lakes in Rhône-Alpes:

Lac de Paladru
Lac d'Aiguebelette
Lac du Bourget
Lac d'Annecy
Lac de Nantua
Lac Léman

Prefectures
Prefectures listed in descending order of size:

Lyon (Rhône)
Grenoble (Isère)
Saint-Étienne (Loire)
Valence (Drôme)
Chambéry (Savoie)
Annecy (Haute-Savoie)
Bourg-en-Bresse (Ain)
Privas (Ardèche)

History
Although there have been people in Rhône-Alpes since pre-historic times, the earliest recorded settlers of the region were the Gauls (Celts). Cities such as Lyon were founded by them and the region traded with both northern and southern Europe. Most of the area became part of Roman territory during the invasion of Celtic Gaul led by Julius Caesar and was at various times part of the regions of Lugdunensis and Gallia. Lyon itself became a major city in the Roman Empire.
The region, excepting Savoy, was part of the Merovingian and Carolingian Kingdoms before becoming a royal territory under the Capetians. As it became a royal territory early on in French history, its cultural, political and economic influences and developments paralleled those of greater France. (See History of France.)

Transportation
Rhône-Alpes is a major European transit hub, linking northern France and Europe to the Mediterranean area. Millions travel along its motorways in summertime from Paris to holidays at the sea. The E15 Euroroute (Britain to Spain) runs through the region. There are international airports at Lyon, Grenoble and Saint-Étienne and many other minor airports and airfields.
The region is also a transport hub for the rail network with the TGV running through Lyon from Paris and the north, to the Mediterranean. A high-speed rail link is planned from Lyon to Turin.

Economy
Rhône-Alpes is a prosperous region which can be seen by its per capita GDP of about €31,231 ($40,000), which is higher than the French average, and an average income of €35,910 ($50,246), its economy second in size only to Île-de-France in France. This can be attributed to the diversity of the production in different sectors. The region is one of the Four Motors for Europe.

Industry, in particular:
Light engineering and high-tech
Mechanical engineering in the area of Annecy
Precision machining in the area of Cluses
Services, in particular:
High-tech industries, nanotechnology, biotechnology especially in Grenoble with 62,300 jobs in these sectors thanks to the presence of the Polygone Scientifique, Inovallée and some large companies as Schneider Electric.
Optic and design in Saint-Étienne
Tourism with the Alps (for skiing), Lyon and Grenoble (for culture) and the Ardèche (adventure sports/camping) particularly popular
Education, with major universities in Lyon, Grenoble and Saint-Étienne.In the past mining, especially coal mining was an important sector, particularly around Saint-Étienne, although this has declined since the 1970s.
The area of the region that lies close to Switzerland has an economy linked to that of Geneva. This area forms a hinterland for the Geneva hub.The Triangle of Lyon, Saint-Étienne and Grenoble contribute a GDP of €145 billion to the region. Add Valence to it, it is almost €150 billion. In addition, Lyon alone has a Gross Metropolitan Product of about €85 billion.
The region has been part of Alps–Mediterranean Euroregion since 10 July 2007.

Major cities
Winter Olympics
Rhône-Alpes region has hosted the Winter Olympics three times; in 1924 at Chamonix, 1968 at Grenoble, and 1992 at Albertville.

Tourism
Situated between Paris and the Côte d’Azur, on the border with both Switzerland and Italy, and offering access to two international airports (Lyon and Geneva), rail connections and a vast motorway network, the Rhône-Alpes region is at "the crossroads of Europe".
Boasting eight natural parks and peerless sites such as Mont Blanc and the Gorges de l’Ardèche, Rhône-Alpes offers a wide range of different landscapes: mountains, vineyards and gentle valleys, fields of lavender and olive groves.
Every form of sport is readily available, set against a natural backdrop: skiing, hiking, mountain biking or even paragliding and canoeing. Besides hosting three Winter Olympics games due to its being the largest ski area in the world, Rhône-Alpes is the second most important golfing region in France with over 60 courses.

Enthusiasts of art and culture will not be disappointed by the region's Villes d’Art: Lyon, which is classified by UNESCO as a World Heritage site, Annecy, Grenoble, Chambéry, and Saint-Étienne.
And last but not least, connoisseurs of good food and wine will be spoilt for choice by the range of local specialties available to taste along with a Beaujolais or a Côtes du Rhône, and by the sheer number of famous restaurants (with Paul Bocuse at the top of the list) in the region.

Gastronomy
Lyon is noted as a gastronomic centre of France and specialities served in its traditional bouchons include Lyon sausage, sophisticated salami (known there as "rosette"), tripe and quenelles. In the east of the region the food has an Alpine flavour with dishes such as fondue, raclette common, gratin dauphinois and gratin savoyard. The region is also famous for its Bresse poultry and the many varieties of cheese including Tomme de Savoie, Bleu de Bresse, Reblochon, Saint-Marcellin and Vacherin du Haut-Doubs.Wines in this region include Beaujolais, Côtes du Rhône and Savoy wine. Chartreuse liqueur is made in the region.
Lyon is the home of very typical and traditional restaurants: the bouchons. Bouchons are usually convivial restaurants serving local dishes, and local wines.
Lyon is famous for its morning snacks, the mâchons, made up of local charcuterie, especially the rosette and usually accompanied by Beaujolais red wine. Traditional local dishes include saucisson de Lyon (sausage), andouillette, coq au vin, esox (pike) quenelle, gras double (tripe cooked with onions), salade lyonnaise (lettuce with bacon, croûtons and a poached egg), marrons glacés and cardoon au gratin.

See also
List of châteaux in Rhône-Alpes
Transport in Rhône-Alpes
Passage 7:
Rodnowo
Rodnowo [rɔdˈnɔvɔ] (German: Reddenau) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bartoszyce, within Bartoszyce County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland, close to the border with the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia. It lies approximately 11 kilometres (7 mi) west of Bartoszyce and 51 km (32 mi) north of the regional capital Olsztyn.
Passage 8:
Pulaski High School
Pulaski High School is a public high school in Pulaski, Wisconsin, United States, in Brown County (school district also serves parts of Shawano, Outagamie and Oconto counties), that serves students in grades 9 through 12.  Its mascot is the Red Raider.

History
The original school was built in 1909, with additions throughout the next five decades. In 1975, the high school took over an existing school along with other additions, most notably an indoor swimming pool. Another new building was built in 1998 due to a rapidly growing population.

Academics
Pulaski offers Advanced Placement classes. The student to teacher ratio is 18 to 1.

Demographics
Over 90 percent of the student body is Caucasian, while 2.9 percent are American Indian, 2.5 percent are Hispanic, 1.4 percent are African American and 1.0 percent are Asian. The school is split 51/49 male to female, while just over 22 percent of the school is eligible for free or reduced lunch.

Athletics
State championships
Boys' Basketball: 2013
Wrestling: 1969, 1974, 1993 (all runner-up)
Football: 1980 (runner-up)
Softball: 1996 (runner-up)
Cross Country: 2004 (runner-up)
Rugby: 2009, 2010, 2014, 2015, 2018Pulaski has also had a number of individual state champions.
In 2016, Pulaski citizens privately funded a $4.9 million athletic expansion project, including a new football stadium, track, baseball and softball fields, as well as expanding the tennis facilities.

Incident involving Mike McCarthy
On February 27, 2019, the school became the center of attention during a basketball game against Notre Dame Academy after former Green Bay Packers head coach Mike McCarthy was berating officials during the game. A complaint was submitted to the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association following the incident. McCarthy's behavior was criticized as "unacceptable" from the Notre Dame Academy and Pulaski athletic director Janet Batten. A day later, McCarthy apologized for the incident.

Music
The Red Raider Marching Band performed in the 2007, 2012, and 2017 Rose Parades and in the 2003 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City.

Notable alumni
Jacqui Banaszynski, Pulitzer Prize-winning writer
Jeremy Borseth, NFL punter
Carey Lohrenz, F-14 Tomcat pilot
Neil Worden, NFL fullback
Passage 9:
Union territory
A union territory is a type of administrative division in the Republic of India. Unlike the states of India, which have their own governments, union territories are federal territories governed, in part or in whole, by the Union Government of India. There are currently eight union territories in India, namely Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Lakshadweep and Puducherry.

History
When the Constitution of India was adopted in 1949, the Indian federal structure included:

Part C states, which were chief commissioners' provinces and some princely states, each governed by a chief commissioner appointed by the President of India. The ten Part C states were Ajmer, Bhopal, Bilaspur, Coorg, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Cutch, Manipur, Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh.
One Part D state (Andaman and Nicobar Islands) administered by a lieutenant governor appointed by the central government.After the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, Part C and Part D states were combined into a single category of "Union territory". Due to various other reorganisations, only 6 union territories remained: 

Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Laccadive, Minicoy & Amindivi Islands (later renamed Lakshadweep)
Delhi
Manipur
Tripura
Himachal PradeshBy the early 1970s, Manipur, Tripura, and Himachal Pradesh had become full-fledged states, and Chandigarh became a union territory. Another three (Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Puducherry) were formed from acquired territories that formerly belonged to non-British colonial powers (Portuguese India and French India, respectively).
In August 2019, the Parliament of India passed Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019. The act contains provisions to reconstitute the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories, one to be eponymously called Jammu and Kashmir, and the other Ladakh on 31 October 2019.
In November 2019, the Government of India introduced legislation to merge the union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu into a single union territory to be known as Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.

Administration
The Parliament of India can pass a law to amend the constitution and provide a Legislature with elected Members and a Chief Minister for a union territory, as it has done for Delhi and Puducherry. Generally, the President of India appoints an administrator or lieutenant governor for each UT.Delhi, Puducherry, Jammu and Kashmir operate differently from the other five. They were given partial statehood and Delhi was redefined as the [National Capital Territory] (NCT) and incorporated into a larger area known as the National Capital Region (NCR). Delhi, Puducherry, Jammu and Kashmir have an elected legislative assembly and an executive council of ministers with a partially state-like function.Due to the existence of union territories, many critics have resolved India into a semi-federal nation, as the central and state governments each have their domains and territories of legislation. Union territories of India have special rights and status due to their constitutional formation and development. The status of "union territory" may be assigned to an Indian sub-jurisdiction for reasons such as safeguarding the rights of indigenous cultures, averting political turmoil related to matters of governance, and so on. These union territories could be changed to states in the future for more efficient administrative control.The Constitution does not stipulate how tax revenue is to be devolved to the union territories, unlike for the states. The fund's devolution to union territories by the union government has no criteria where all the revenue goes to the union government. Some union territories are provided more funds, while others are given less, arbitrarily by the union government. As union territories are directly ruled by the union government, some union territories get more funds from the union government than entitled on per capita and backwardness basis when compared to states.
After the introduction of GST, UT-GST is applicable in union territories that do not have a legislative assembly. UT- GST is levied at par with the applicable state GST in the rest of the country which would eliminate the previous lower taxation in the union territories.

Constitutional status
Article 1 (1) of the Indian constitution says that India shall be a "Union of States", which is elaborated under Parts V (The Union) and VI (The States) of the constitution. Article 1 (3) says the territory of India comprises the territories of the states, the union territories and other territories that may be acquired. The concept of union territories was not in the original version of the constitution, but was added by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956. Article 366(30) also defines Union territory as any union territory specified in the First Schedule and includes any other territory comprised within the territory of India but not specified in that Schedule. In the constitution wherever it refers to Territories of India, it is applicable to the whole country including union territories. Where it refers to only India, it applies to all states only but not to union territories. Thus, citizenship (part II), fundamental rights (part III), Directive Principles of State Policy (part IV), Judiciary role, the Union Territories (part VIII), Article 245, etc. apply to union territories as it refers specifically to Territories of India. The executive power of the Union (i.e. union of states only) rests with President of India. The President of India is also the chief administrator of union territories as per Article 239. The union public service commission's role does not apply to all territories of India as it refers to India only in Part XIV.
The constitutional status of a union territory is similar to a state under the perennial president's rule per Article 356 subject to specific exemptions to a few union territories with legislative assembly. As Per Article 240 (1), supreme power is accorded to the president in regulating the affairs of all the union territories except Chandigarh, NCT and Puducherry, including powers to override the laws made by Parliament and the constitution of India. Article 240 (2) allows implementing tax haven laws in these union territories to attract foreign capital and investments into India instead of depending on foreign tax haven countries.
The difference between states as listed in the First Schedule of the constitution and union territories with legislative assembly is that states were given autonomous powers as provided in the constitution without any possible interference by the parliament whereas UTs with legislative assembly (Part VIII) has similar powers but parliament is empowered to modify or repeal or suspend the laws made by a union territory (ultimate authority by the parliament unlike the independent nature of the states).
Three of the union territories have representation in the upper house of the Indian Parliament, the Rajya Sabha: Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, and Puducherry. Puducherry, Jammu and Kashmir and NCT of Delhi are the only 3 Union Territories that are exceptional among union territories in that each has its own locally elected legislative assembly and have a Chief Minister.

Current union territories
Former union territories
Proposed union territories
There have been a number of movements and proposals to carve out additional states and union territories.

See also
Staff Selection Commission
Federalism in India
Lawmaking procedure in India
List of amendments of the Constitution of India
List of Acts of the Parliament of India
Passage 10:
Naas River
The Naas River, a perennial stream of the Murrumbidgee catchment within the Murray–Darling basin, is located in the Australian Capital Territory, Australia.

Course
The river rises in the southern ranges of Namadgi National Park, south of Canberra, with flow generated by runoff and melting snow during spring from the Snowy Mountains. The river flows generally north, joined by four minor tributaries, before reaching its confluence with the Gudgenby River, south of Tharwa; descending 266 metres (873 ft) over its 26-kilometre (16 mi) course.The watershed boundary of the Naas River defines the southern and south-eastern border of the Australian Capital Territory with New South Wales.

See also

List of rivers of Australia § Australian Capital Territory
Australian Alps Walking Track
Passage 11:
Kis-Küküllő County
Kis-Küküllő was an administrative county (comitatus) of the Kingdom of Hungary. Its territory is now in central Romania (central Transylvania). Kis-Küküllő is the Hungarian name for the river Târnava Mică. The capital of the county was Dicsőszentmárton (now Târnăveni).

Geography
Kis-Küküllő county shared borders with the Hungarian counties Alsó-Fehér, Torda-Aranyos, Maros-Torda, Udvarhely and Nagy-Küküllő. The river Mureș formed part of its northern border, the river Târnava Mare its southern border. Târnava Mică river flowed through the county. Its area was 1,724 km² around 1910.

History
Kis-Küküllő county came into existence in 1876, when the administrative structure of Transylvania was changed and Küküllő County was split. In 1920, by the Treaty of Trianon, the county became part of Romania. After the Second Vienna Award, a little part of the former county became part of Hungary again and was assigned to the recreated Maros-Torda County. Its territory lies in the present Romanian counties Mureș (a.o. Târnăveni), Alba (the south-west) and Sibiu (the south, a.o. Dumbrăveni).

Demographics
Subdivisions
In the early 20th century, the subdivisions of Kis-Küküllő county were:

Notes
Passage 12:
Krasnovishersky District
Krasnovishersky District (Russian: Краснови́шерский райо́н) is an administrative district (raion) of Perm Krai, Russia; one of the thirty-three in the krai. Municipally, it is incorporated as Krasnovishersky Municipal District. It is located in the northeast of the krai, in the valley of the Vishera River, and borders with the Komi Republic in the north, Sverdlovsk Oblast in the east, Cherdynsky District in the west, Solikamsky District in the south, and with the territory of the town of krai significance of Alexandrovsk in the southeast. The area of the district is 15,375 square kilometers (5,936 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Krasnovishersk. Population:  22,554 (2010 Census); 27,871 (2002 Census); 30,827 (1989 Census). The population of Krasnovishersk accounts for 71.4% of the district's total population.

Geography
The eastern part of the district is mostly mountainous, while the western part is mostly flat, with some hills with the height of about 190–220 meters (620–720 ft). The highest point of Perm Krai, Mount Tulymsky Kamen, is located in the district. There are many rivers in the district, including the Vishera River with its tributaries the Yazva, the Vels, the Uls, and many others. The town of Krasnovishersk is located 320 kilometers (200 mi) from the city of Perm. Natural resources of the district include diamonds, gold, oil, natural gas, and others.
The climate is temperate continental. The average annual temperature is +0.1 °C (32.2 °F); annual precipitation is 550–700 millimeters (22–28 in). Up to 87% of the district's territory is covered by forests. In the extreme northeast of the district the Vishera Nature Reserve is located.

History
The district was established on January 13, 1941. Until then, its territory was a part of Cherdynsky District. Krasnovishersk, the administrative center of the district, was granted town status on July 2, 1942.

Demographics
As of the 2002 Census, about 89.7% of district's population were Russians and 2.5% were the Komi people.

Economy
The industry of the district includes timber industry, pulp and paper mill, mining and food industry.

See also
Visherogorsk
Zagovorukha
Passage 13:
Gmina Ujsoły
Gmina Ujsoły is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Żywiec County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland, on the Slovak border. Its seat is the village of Ujsoły, which lies approximately 26 kilometres (16 mi) south of Żywiec and 88 km (55 mi) south of the regional capital Katowice.
The gmina covers an area of 109.95 square kilometres (42.5 sq mi), and as of 2019 its total population is 4,466.

Villages
Gmina Ujsoły contains the villages and settlements of Cicha, Danielka, Glinka, Herdula, Kotrysia Polana, Kręcichłosty, Młada Hora, Okrągłe, Smereków Wielki, Soblówka, Stawiska, Szczytkówka, Ujsoły and Złatna.

Neighbouring gminas
Gmina Ujsoły is bordered by the gminas of Jeleśnia, Milówka, Rajcza and Węgierska Górka. It also borders Slovakia.
Passage 14:
Bondary
Bondary [bɔnˈdarɨ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Michałowo, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It lies approximately 14 kilometres (9 mi) south-east of Michałowo and 44 km (27 mi) south-east of the regional capital Białystok.
The village has a population of 330.
Passage 15:
Cielętnik
Cielętnik [t͡ɕɛˈlɛntnik] (German: Kälberhaus) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Braniewo, within Braniewo County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland, close to the border with the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia. It lies approximately 6 kilometres (4 mi) west of Braniewo and 82 km (51 mi) north-west of the regional capital Olsztyn.
The village has a population of 51.
Passage 16:
Tymce
Tymce [ˈtɨmt͡sɛ] (Ukrainian: Тимці, Tymtsi) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Lubaczów, within Lubaczów County, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, in south-eastern Poland, close to the border with Ukraine. It lies approximately 10 kilometres (6 mi) north-east of Lubaczów and 90 km (56 mi) east of the regional capital Rzeszów.The village has a population of 307.
Passage 17:
Jerome Quinn
Jerome Quinn (May 23, 1908 – February 29, 2008) was a Wisconsin politician and realtor.Born in Green Bay, Wisconsin, Quinn was a realtor and served on the Green Bay Common Council, the Brown County, Wisconsin Board of Supervisors, the local Board of Education, and the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1955 until 1973. He was a Republican.
Passage 18:
John C. Petersen
John C. Petersen (November 2, 1842 – July 10, 1887) was an American butcher and farmer from Appleton, Wisconsin who served as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from Outagamie County. He was elected in 1878 as a Greenbacker, and was re-elected the next year as a "Greenback Democrat" (even though he was opposed by a Democrat).

Background
Petersen was born in Glückstadt, Holstein-Glückstadt (now part of Germany but then ruled by the Kings of Denmark) on November 2, 1842. He received a common school education, and became a butcher by occupation. Petersen came to Wisconsin in 1862, and settled in Appleton, where he was elected to various township offices .

Public office
Petersen was elected to the assembly for 1879 from Outagamie County's 1st Assembly district (The City of Appleton, and the Towns of Buchanan, Center, Freedom, Grand Chute and Kaukauna), receiving 1,096 votes against 1,000 for Republican B. T. Rogers (Rep.), and 423 for incumbent William Smith Warner (who had been elected as an "Independent Democrat" but was now the Democratic nominee). He was assigned to the standing committee on public improvements.He was re-elected for 1880 by 963 votes, against 779 for D. J. Brothers, a Democrat, and 434 for P. P. Wing, a Republican. Even though he was re-elected running against a Democrat, he is listed in the 1880 Wisconsin Blue Book as a "Greenback Democrat": there were 71 Republicans, 27 Democrats, Petersen (listed separately as "Greenback Democrat") and one Greenback (David Bean) listed in the Assembly roster for that year. He remained on the public improvements committee. Petersen was not a candidate for re-election for 1881, and was succeeded by Democrat Henry Clay Sloan.

Personal life
Petersen married Wilhelmina "Minnie" Freiberg, born in Stettin, Pomerania in 1849; they were the parents of five children. Petersen was in the butcher business at Appleton for about twenty-five years, then moved to a farm in Grand Chute township which he operated until his retirement, and then returned to Appleton, where he died on July 10, 1887. His widow survived him, living until 1932. They are buried at Riverside Cemetery in Appleton.
Passage 19:
Confederate Arizona
Arizona Territory, colloquially referred to as Confederate Arizona, was an organized incorporated territory of the Confederate States that existed from August 1, 1861 to May 26, 1865, when the Confederate States Army Trans-Mississippi Department, commanded by General Edmund Kirby Smith, surrendered at Shreveport, Louisiana. However, after the Battle of Glorieta Pass, the Confederates had to retreat from the territory, and by July 1862, effective Confederate control of the territory had ended.
Delegates to the secession convention had voted in March 1861 to secede from the New Mexico Territory and the Union, and seek to join the Confederacy. It consisted of the portion of the New Mexico Territory south of the 34th parallel, including parts of the modern states of New Mexico and Arizona. The capital was Mesilla, along the southern border. The breakaway region overlapped Arizona Territory, established by the Union government in February 1863.
Arizona was proclaimed a Confederate territory on August 1, 1861, after Colonel John R. Baylor's victory at the Battle of Mesilla. His hold on the area was broken after Glorieta Pass (March 26–28, 1862), the defining battle of the New Mexico Campaign. In July 1862, the Confederate territorial government withdrew to El Paso, Texas. With the approach of Union troops, it relocated to San Antonio, where it remained for the duration of the civil war. The territory continued to be represented in the Confederate States Congress, and Confederate troops continued to fight under the Arizona banner until the war ended.
The political geography of the two Arizona Territories differed in that the Confederate Arizona was approximately the southern half of the historic New Mexico Territory, while the Union-defined Arizona Territory was approximately the western half of what had been New Mexico Territory, which became the basis for present-day Arizona.

Background
Before the start of the war, the land of the current states of New Mexico and Arizona was part of the New Mexico Territory and the Gadsden Purchase, which ran parallel to William Walker's Republics of Lower California and Sonora. As early as 1856, the territorial government in Santa Fe had raised concerns about being able to effectively govern the southern part of the territory. It was separated from the rest by the Jornada del Muerto, a difficult stretch of desert.
In February 1858, the New Mexico territorial legislature adopted a resolution in favor of the creation of the Arizona Territory. The border was to be defined along the 32nd meridian west from Washington. The legislature proposed that all the Indians of New Mexico would be removed to northern Arizona.
In April 1860, impatient for Congress to act, the territory called a convention and 31 delegates met in Tucson. In July 1860, the convention drafted a constitution for a "Territory of Arizona" to be organized out of the New Mexico Territory south of 34th parallel north. The convention elected Lewis S. Owings as the Territorial Governor, and elected a delegate to Congress.
Anti-slavery Representatives opposed creating a new territory, as they feared it had the potential to become a slave state. Many people in the area were pro-slavery, with business connections in southern states, from which some had migrated. In addition, all of this new territory lay below the old Missouri Compromise line of demarcation between slave and free states.
Since the proceedings of the Tucson convention were never ratified by the United States Congress, the Provisional Territory was not considered a legal entity. For a time it operated as a de facto, if not de jure, government for the intended Arizona Territory. Lewis S. Owings, Governor of the Provisional Territory, appointed James Henry Tevis to raise the first Territorial Militia. This comprised three companies of Arizona Rangers for the protection of the Territory from marauding Apaches and bandits. Two companies were raised in the Pinos Altos mining camp, and another at Mesilla.

Secession
After the start of the American Civil War, support for the Confederacy was strong in the southern part of the New Mexico Territory. Some residents felt neglected by the United States government. They worried about the lack of sufficient troops to fight the Apache. These Native Americans were attacking White settlers, killing off ranchers and mining camps all over Traditional Arizona.  This became open warfare following the February 3–9, 1861 Bascom Affair, that brought Cochise into the war.  Arizona settlers were also disturbed by the closing of the Butterfield Overland Mail route and their stations in March 1861, which had connected the Arizona frontier colonies to the East and California.
In March 1861, the citizens of Mesilla called a secession convention to join the Confederacy. On March 16 the convention adopted a secession ordinance, citing the region's common interests and geography with the Confederacy, their political sympathy with the Southern secession movement, their opposition to the "sectional" party, the "Black" Republicans, the need of frontier protection, and the loss of postal service routes under the United States government, as reasons for their separation. The ordinance proposed the question of secession to the western portions of the territory. On March 28 a second convention in present-day Tucson met and ratified the ordinance. The conventions subsequently established a provisional territorial government for the Confederate "Territory of Arizona." Owings was elected again as provisional governor and Granville Henderson Oury was chosen as a delegate to petition for the territory's admission into the Confederacy.

Confederate units
Arizona Militia (1860–1862)
Arizona Guards (Pinos Altos mining camp)
Arizona Rangers (Mesilla)
Minute Men (Pinos Altos mining camp)
Herbert's Battalion, Arizona Cavalry (1862–1863)
Capt. Thomas Helm's Company (Arizona Guards)
Capt. G. H. Oury's Company (Arizona Rangers)
Capt. R. L. Swope's Company (Arizona Rangers)

Major campaigns
Arizona was thought to be important to the role of the New Mexico Territory in the American Civil War primarily because it offered Confederate access to California. Consequently, it was the scene of several important battles in the war's Trans-Mississippi Theater.
In July 1861 a force under Lieutenant-Colonel John R. Baylor arrived in El Paso, Texas across the border from Mesilla. With support from the secessionist residents of Mesilla, Baylor's 2nd Texas Mounted Rifles entered the territory and took a position in the town on July 25. Union forces under Major Isaac Lynde at nearby Fort Fillmore prepared to attack Baylor. On July 25 the two armies met outside of town at the Battle of Mesilla in a brief engagement in which the Union troops were defeated.
Major Lynde then abandoned Fort Fillmore and began a march north to join the troops at Fort Craig under Colonel Edward R. S. Canby. However, his retreat came to a halt in severe heat and was overtaken by Baylor. Lynde surrendered his command without a shot fired at San Augustine Springs, in the Organ Mountains.On August 1, 1861, the victorious Baylor proclaimed the existence of a Confederate Arizona Territory, which comprised the area defined in the Tucson convention the previous year. He appointed himself as permanent governor. Among his cabinet members was the Mesilla attorney Marcus H. MacWillie, who served as the territorial attorney general.The next month, Baylor's cavalrymen under Bethel Coopwood, marched north from Camp Robledo along the Rio Grande and surprised a Union force of New Mexican militia cavalry in a small engagement west of the Rio Grande at the village of Canada Alamosa, ending with another Confederate victory and the capture of 25 men of that unit including its commander. The next day after disarming and paroling the captured New Mexican enlisted men, Coopwood retired southward along the west bank of the river with the two captured Union officers and an NCO to a camp 15 miles to the north of Fort Thorn.  There a Union column of Mounted Infantry sent to relieve the New Mexican militia force caught up with Coopwood, and skirmished for a few hours with the Confederates until their ammunition was depleted, forcing the Mounted Infantry to retire northward to their base at Fort Craig.
The proposal to organize the Confederate Territory of Arizona was passed by the Confederate Congress in early 1862 and proclaimed by President Jefferson Davis on February 14, 1862. Coincidentally, Arizona statehood was approved exactly fifty years later on February 14, 1912.

Efforts by the Confederacy to secure control of the region led to the New Mexico Campaign. Baylor sent Company A, Arizona Rangers to Tucson to protect the population from the Apache and delay the advance of Union troops from Fort Yuma.
In 1862 Baylor was ousted as governor of the territory by President Davis, and the Confederate loss at the Battle of Glorieta Pass forced Confederate retreat from the territory. On March 30, Union forces fought a smaller engagement against a detachment of Company A, Arizona Rangers, a Confederate force destroying supply depots along the California Column route of advance on the Gila River, 80 miles east of its base at Fort Yuma. This skirmish, known as the Battle of Stanwix Station, was the westernmost engagement of regular forces in the Civil War, and successfully delayed the advance of the California forces.
The following month a small picket troop of the Rangers north of Tucson fought with an equally small Union cavalry patrol from the California Column in the so-called Battle of Picacho Pass again delaying the advance of the California Column to Tucson.
By July 1862, Union forces of the California Column were approaching the territorial capital of Mesilla from the west but severe flooding of the Rio Grande barred their way and they had to divert north to Fort Thorn and the San Diego Crossing and wait two weeks for the water to fall enough for a crossing.  With Canby advancing down the east bank of the Rio Grande and the loss of control of the countryside to New Mexican guerillas after the Second Battle of Mesilla the Confederates abandoned Mesilla and retreated south to Franklin, Texas.
In 1862 the California Column volunteers who fought at Stanwix Station and Picacho Pass fought at the Battle of Apache Pass against 500 Apaches. The battle is considered part of the American Civil War. There were also several engagements between Apaches and Confederates. The Battle of Dragoon Springs marks the only known Confederate combat deaths in the modern confines of Arizona. Other engagements include the Siege of Tubac, the Battle of Cookes Canyon, the Battle of the Florida Mountains, the Battle of Pinos Altos and a number of other smaller skirmishes and massacres.
The territorial government relocated to Franklin, then with Confederate military units retreated to San Antonio abandoning West Texas. For the rest of the war, California Column troops controlled all of Confederate Arizona, Franklin and Fort Quitman in West Texas.  The government in exile remained in Texas for the duration of the war, although MacWillie continued to represent the territory in the First and 2nd Confederate States Congresses. Minor resistance in Arizona continued at the partisan level, and Confederate units under the banner of Arizona fought until the end of the war in May 1865.

See also
List of governors of dependent territories in the 19th century
New Mexico Territory in the American Civil War

Notes