Passage 1:
Château de Chalmazel
The Château de Chalmazel, or Château des Talaru is a castle situated in the commune of Chalmazel, in the Loire département of France. It is located in the Haut-Forez, between the  towns of Saint-Étienne and Thiers. Its name in medieval times was Saint-Jehan-des-Neiges. The castle dominates the valley of the Lignon and it was built to be an impregnable fortress on the instructions of the Count of Forez.

History
Construction of the fortress began in 1231. The work was carried out by seigneur (Lord) Arnaud de Marcilly to the order of Guy IV du Forez who financed it. The site was covered by forest and almost inaccessible. Initially, it functioned rather as a fortified house, but it was transformed into a genuine medieval fortress, intended to counteract the ambitions of the powerful neighbours of the seigneurie of Couzan, then in the hands of the Damas family, linked to the Germanic emperor.
The castle appeared gloomy and severe, with four round towers dominated by a square keep, with no openings on the sides.
When Antoine de Marcilly died aged 25 with no direct heirs in 1371, the castle passed to his sister Béatrix, last of the Marcilly line. She had married Mathieu de Talaru in 1364; thus the seigneurie of Chalmazel passed to the Talarus, an old noble family from the Lyonnais.
Following the destruction of the Château de Marcilly, the Talarus withdrew to the castle at Chamazel and, in 1400, they built the ramparts, in the form of a pentagonal enceinte and added machicolations to the keep. After the incorporation of Forez into the Kingdom of France, the Talarus served the king in his armies.
During the Renaissance, the Marquis de Talaru, returning from the Italian Wars, added Renaissance style embellishments: openwork facade, galleries to the inner court, painting in the chapel, sculptures.
But the winters were harsh, and from 1533, the Talarus preferred to live in their Château d'Écotay or in Saint-Marcel-de-Félines, acquired by marriage in 1559. Chalmazel was transformed into a summer residence and began to be neglected.
In the 18th century, the Talarus inherited by marriage the Château de Chamarande, near Arpajon, to the south of Paris, and they moved there to be closer to Versailles where Louis de Talaru held important posts in the royal court and the army. They abandoned the castle in 1650, carrying out only the most urgent work. The castle began a slow but sure deterioration.
In 1850, Louis-Justin, last Marquis of Talaru, 25th lord of Chalmazel, peer of France and ambassador, with no heirs, left the castle and the forest to the nuns of the Sœurs de Saint-Joseph, in order to establish a hospital for the canton for the care of the sick.
The nuns carried out some repair work (roof, round walk, rebuilding a tower) and decoration. Later, they transformed it into a boarding school for children from the school at Chamazel.The nuns finally left the castle in 1972 and rented it to the commune, on the condition that it was maintained and opened to the public during the summer months.
The castle is now owned by new proprietors who intend to open it to visitors and to create chambres d'hôtes (bed and breakfast accommodation).

Tourism
The castle, with its medieval aspect, has kept the elements of a fortified house from the year 1231, but with all of the later modifications and additions by the Talarus over the centuries: murder-holes, walls, keep, round walk with machicolations - but it also has Renaissance elements: the facade, the inner courtyard, galleries and chapel.
The castle is open to visitors from June to September. It is possible to rent rooms and a suite.
The Château de Chalmazel is listed as a monument historique by the French Ministry of Culture.

See also
List of castles in France
Passage 2:
Spirit If...
Spirit If... is the debut solo album by Broken Social Scene co-founder Kevin Drew. It was released on September 18, 2007. The album is the first in a series entitled Broken Social Scene Presents:, with each album in the series being a particular member's solo efforts, assisted by fellow Broken Social Scene members. Brendan Canning's album Something for All of Us, the second in the series, was released in 2008.
Spirit If... was recorded with Ohad Benchetrit and Charles Spearin of Do Make Say Think and Broken Social Scene. The track listing, album cover, as well as an mp3 download for the song "Tbtf" (an initialism for "Too Beautiful to Fuck") were released on June 19, 2007. Spirit If... reached #113 on the Billboard 200 and #1 on the Top Heatseekers chart. "Backed Out on the..." was listed at #33 on Rolling Stone's list of the 100 Best Songs of 2007 and 99th on Pitchfork Media's list.

Track listing
"Farewell to the Pressure Kids" – 5:49
"Tbtf" – 3:51
"Fucked Up Kid" – 5:09
"Safety Bricks" – 4:27
"Lucky Ones" – 6:44
"Broke Me Up" – 4:24
"Gang Bang Suicide" – 6:22
"Frightening Lives" – 6:12
"Underneath the Skin" – 0:46
"Big Love" – 3:19
"Backed Out on the..." – 4:16
"Aging Faces / Losing Places" – 4:31
"Bodhi Sappy Weekend" – 4:29
"When It Begins" – 5:01
"What You Gonna Be" (iTunes bonus track) – 4:05

Sources
http://www.arts-crafts.ca/releases_spotlight.php?search=AC027
https://web.archive.org/web/20070621183237/http://www.pitchforkmedia.com/page/news/43720-kevin-drew-bss-series-lp-details-emerge
https://web.archive.org/web/20070701135609/http://www.pitchforkmedia.com/page/news/43494-kevin-drew-preps-lp-for-broken-social-scene-series
Passage 3:
Landesmuseum Württemberg
The Landesmuseum Württemberg (Württemberg State Museum) is the main historical museum of the Württemberg part of the German state of Baden-Württemberg. It emerged from the 16th-century “Kunstkammer” (Cabinet of art and curiosities) of the dukes, later kings, of Württemberg who resided in Stuttgart. As a museum it was founded in 1862 by King William I.

Collections in Stuttgart and Waldenbuch
The museum's main location is the Old Castle in Stuttgart. The nearby granary and the cellar of the New Castle also contain parts of the collections as well as Waldenbuch Castle outside of Stuttgart.
The collections are grouped into eight divisions:

Schausammlung LegendäreMeisterWerke (Legendary Masterpieces)
archeology: Paleolithic, Neolithic, Bronze Age, Iron Age, antiquity, Romans in Württemberg, early Middle Ages
history of art and cultural history: Württemberg crown jewels, medieval art, modern glass painting
Schausammlung Wahre Schätze (Real Treasures)
Antikensammlung - Museum of Ancient Art
Kunstkammer - Cabinet of Art and Curiosities
Kelten - Early Celtic Treasures
Glass collection of Ernesto Wolf
antique glass
modern era glass
Clocks and scientific instruments
Kindermuseum Junges Schloss - Museum for Children
Musical instruments (located in the Fruchtkasten (granary))
Roman lapidarium (located in the cellar of Neues Schloss (New Castle))
Folklore (located at the Museum of Everyday Culture in Waldenbuch Castle outside of Stuttgart): labor, belief and piety, graphic design, clothing, merchandise, culture of living.Apart from these collections the museum regularly features special exhibitions.
The museum presents a whole range of archeological treasures and a notable collection of medieval art. It also includes the inventories of the former army and manufacturing museums. Some of the most valuable possessions of the museum were already acquired by the dukes for their art chamber: two of only four preserved Aztec feather shields from before 1521 and the oldest preserved card game, about 1430, richly decorated and expensive already at the time of production. Exhibits of local origin include a celestial globe of 1493 by Johannes Stöffler, an 11-digit mechanical calculator of 1774 by Philipp Matthäus Hahn (the first to build functional calculators to Gottfried Leibniz' design for all four arithmetic operations), and, probably the museum's most symbolic exhibit despite being similar to other ones: the royal Württemberg crown of 1797.

Further Collections
The museum today has a further seven branches throughout Württemberg referring to special topics:

Schlossmuseum Aulendorf (Aulendorf Castle museum): old toys and art of the classicism period
Schloss Urach (Urach Castle): sleighs of state, 25 specimens, world's biggest collection of this kind
Museum für Kutschen, Chaisen, Karren (museum for carriages, chaises, carts), Hellenstein Castle, Heidenheim
German Playing Card Museum (Deutsches Spielkartenmuseum), Leinfelden-Echterdingen: 15,000 card decks and 500,000 cards from seven centuries. The biggest public collection of playing cards in Europe
Fashion museum, Ludwigsburg Palace
Ceramics museum and Ludwigsburg porcelain, Ludwigsburg Palace
Dominican museum, Rottweil: archeological collection on arae flaviae (Rottweil), oldest town (AD 73)in Baden-Württemberg; medieval religious art collection; contemporary art collection of the Rottweil areaSeveral other former branches now belong to the separate Baden-Württemberg State Archeological Museum (Archäologisches Landesmuseum Baden-Württemberg), which has been founded in 1990 due to the ever increasing findings of archeological heritage in the state.

Selected exhibits of Landesmuseum Württemberg
External links
Official web site (Select Language menu at top)
Museum of Everyday Culture (German)
Playing Card Museum (German)
Passage 4:
When Spirits Are Calling My Name
The song "When Spirits Are Calling My Name" (original Swedish title "När vindarna viskar mitt namn", literally translated as "When the Winds Whisper My Name") was performed by Roger Pontare in the 2000 Eurovision Song Contest 2000, in representation of Sweden.

Celebration of indigenous culture
The song extols the traditions of indigenous peoples and their efforts to protect their territories and cultures. For his solo appearance in 2000, Pontare wore a Sami costume associated with the indigenous population of Lapland in  northern Sweden (and also the northern regions of Norway, Finland, and Russia). On his performance at the Eurovision Song Contest, Pontare was accompanied by a Cree Native American dancer, a Thule Inuit and a Norwegian Sami.

Eurovision Song Contest 2000
Melodifestivalen 2000 was the 40th edition of the Swedish national selection for the Eurovision Song Contest, which was being held in the Ericsson Globe Arena in Stockholm after Charlotte Nilsson's victory the year before with "Take Me to Your Heaven". Roger Pontare won the right to represent his country after his song "När vindarna viskar mitt namn" was chosen by the Swedish public after earning 227 points in the final voting results at the 40th edition of Melodifestivalen. The song was then performed in English as "When Spirits Are Calling My Name" at the Eurovision Song Contest 2000.
The song performed 18th, after Croatia and before Macedonia, and finished in 7th place among 24 other competitors with a total of 88 points.
At the song's climax, flames erupted from two vents at the front of the stage.

Popularity
"När vindarna viskar mitt namn" was also released as a single in 2000, which sold Swedish platina (30 000 copies). The single peaked at #3 at the Swedish singles chart. On 22 April 2000 the song directly entered Svensktoppen, where it stayed for two rounds. On 6 May 2000 the song was down at the third place after peaking for two weeks. On 5 August 2000 the song was 9th, being at the list for 16th at last time.

Covers by other bands
Swedish bands Ultima Thule and HammerFall later covered "När vindarna viskar mitt namn".

Track listing
När vindarna viskar mitt namn - 2:58
När vindarna viskar mitt namn (singback) - 2:58
Passage 5:
Bucu
Bucu or Buku is a hill island surrounded by the Trave and Wakenitz Rivers in Lübeck, Germany. It is also the name of a medieval Slavic castle, now ruined, on the island. Count Adolf II of Holstein founded Lübeck on the island in 1143. The Burgkloster, or fortified monastery, of Lübeck is located atop the ruins of Bucu. "Bucu" is also the name of a hill.

History
Fortifications probably existed at Bucu by the end of the 7th century or the beginning of the 8th century. When the Christian Obotrite prince Gottschalk was killed at Lenzen in 1066, the pagan Kruto took control of Wagria and made it his base of power. Kruto neglected the developing settlement of Liubice and instead developed Bucu between the Trave and the Wakenitz; Gottschalk's son Henry made Liubice the Obotrite capital after killing Kruto in 1093, however. With the death of Henry in 1127 and the Rani sack of Liubice the following year, Bucu began to assume greater  importance as merchants moved to the fortified hill. Count Adolf II of Holstein founded Lübeck in 1143 near the castle, which offered protection to the new harbour settlement.

Excavation
Bucu was excavated by archaeologists in the 1970s. Recovery excavations at the Kleine Gröpelgrube unearthed a nearby settlement, the suburbium, in 1997. The exposed findings indicate that the region east of the castle was inhabited by Slavs from the 8th or 9th century until the middle of the 12th century.
In a southern section of the current Große Burgstraße, a 3.5 m wide and 2.5 m deep trench protected the settlement. The northern border was presumably north of the current Königstraße. To the west the settlement bordered the castle directly, while to the east it reached the Wakenitz. The settlement area was probably about 6 ha. Discoveries in the interior include mines, mining houses, hearths, and a great number of ceramic objects. The remnants of a potter's workshop were found in the Kleine Gröpelgrube. A Slavic pottery tradition could have existed at the location until the arrival of Saxons in the 12th century. The Kleine Gröpelgrube was first mentioned in 1297 as parva platea lutifigulorum, or the small street of the loam potters.
Passage 6:
Apollo 1 Hills
The Apollo 1 Hills are three hills on Mars named to memorialize the crew of Apollo 1.  The three hills were some of the first landmarks sighted following the January 7, 2004, landing of the Spirit rover on Mars.

Background
NASA astronauts Gus Grissom, Roger Chaffee, and Ed White perished in a flash fire which engulfed their command module on January 27, 1967, while training for the first of the crewed Apollo missions, initially designated as Apollo Saturn-204 (AS-204).  Their capsule stood atop the Saturn-1B rocket which was at the time docked to the launchpad gantry at Cape Canaveral's Launch Complex 34, while they performed an in-capsule training for what was to be a low Earth orbit shake-out mission for the United States' Apollo Space Program.  The craft was set to launch three weeks later, on February 21, 1967.  Following the fire, the mission was renamed Apollo 1 to honor the crew's work.

Mission Command Pilot Grissom had flown in both Mercury and Gemini programs.  Chaffee, at 31, was the youngest member of the astronaut corp ever chosen and was prepping for his first flight.  White had been the first American to perform a spacewalk during the Gemini program.

Location
The three vastly separated hills are located in the Gusev crater, part of the Aeolis quadrangle on Mars.  They were photographed from Spirit's landing site, designated as the Columbia Memorial Station, shortly after the descent and soft landing on the Martian surface of the rover.  The Columbia station and the nearby Columbia Hills are themselves named in honor of the seven crew members of the fatal Columbia spacecraft breakup.The hills are named in memory of the three Apollo 1 astronauts.  Grissom Hill is located 7.5 km (4.7 mi) southwest of the Columbia Memorial Station (at Martian co-ordinates 14.5718°S 175.4785°E﻿ / -14.5718; 175.4785); while 11.2 km (7.0 mi) to the northwest lies White Hill; and Chaffee Hill is located 14.3 km (8.9 mi) south-southwest of the station.  As of January 2020, however, the International Astronomical Union has not officially designated the hills with the names of the astronauts.
"Through recorded history, explorers have had both the honor and responsibility of naming significant landmarks.  Gus, Ed and Roger's contributions, as much as their sacrifice, helped make our giant leap for mankind possible ... as America strides towards our next giant leap, NASA and the Mars Exploration Rover team created a fitting tribute to these brave explorers and their legacy." – written statement by former NASA Administrator, Sean O'Keefe

Panoramic view
See also
Geography of Mars
Passage 7:
Mother Ann (rock formation)
Mother Ann is a rock formation located near the Eastern Point Lighthouse in Gloucester, Massachusetts, United States.  When viewed at the correct angle, the formation appears to be the silhouette of a reclining Puritan woman. It is also believed locally that the formation represents the royal mother of King Charles I, Anne of Denmark, after whom Cape Ann is named.The formation may have been named by Captain William Thompson of Salem in 1891, and has since been compared to New Hampshire's Old Man in the Mountain. A nearby whistling buoy is known as "Mother Ann’s Cow".
The Mother Ann formation inspired several local writers, including Providence author H.P. Lovecraft and poet Clarence Manning Falt. Lovecraft may have used the Mother Ann formation as the basis for the setting of his short story "The Strange High House in the Mist" (1926).

See also
Old Man of the Mountain
Old Man of Hoy
List of rock formations that resemble human beings
Passage 8:
Casa Loma
Casa Loma (improper Spanish for "Hill House") is a Gothic Revival castle-style mansion and garden in midtown Toronto, Ontario, Canada, that is now a historic house museum and landmark. It was constructed from 1911 to 1914 as a residence for financier Sir Henry Pellatt. The architect was E. J. Lennox, who designed several other city landmarks. Casa Loma sits at an elevation of 140 metres (460 ft) above sea level, 66 metres (217 ft) above Lake Ontario.
Due to its unique architectural character in Toronto, Casa Loma has been a popular filming location for movies and television. It is also a popular venue for wedding ceremonies, and Casa Loma can be rented in the evenings after the museum closes to the public.

History
In 1903, financier Henry Pellatt purchased 25 lots from developers Kertland and Rolf. Pellatt commissioned architect E. J. Lennox to design Casa Loma, with construction beginning in 1911, starting with the massive stables, potting shed and Hunting Lodge (a.k.a. coach-house) a few hundred feet north of the main building. The Hunting Lodge is a two-storey 4,380-square-foot (407 m2) house with servants' quarters. As soon as the stable complex was completed, Pellatt sold his summer house in Scarborough (burned down in the 1920s but the Lennox designed groundskeeper's home at 2 Courcelette Road remains) to his son and moved to the Hunting Lodge. The stables were used as a construction site for the mansion (and also served as the quarters for the male servants), with some of the machinery still remaining in the rooms under the stables.The house cost about $3.5 million and took 299 workers three years to build. Due to the start of World War I, construction was halted. At 98 rooms covering 64,700 square feet (6,011 m2), it was the largest private residence in Canada. Notable amenities included an elevator, an oven large enough to cook an ox, two vertical passages for pipe organs, a central vacuum, two secret passages in Pellatt's ground-floor office, a pool, and three bowling lanes in the basement (the last two were never completed).
Most of the third floor was left unfinished, and today serves as the Regimental Museum for The Queen's Own Rifles of Canada. Pellatt joined the Regiment as a Rifleman and rose through the ranks to become the Commanding Officer. He was knighted for his dedication to the Regiment. Pellatt later served as the Honorary Colonel and was promoted to Major-General upon retirement.
During the depression that followed the war, the City of Toronto increased Casa Loma's property taxes from $600 per year to $1,000 a month, and Pellatt, already experiencing financial difficulties, auctioned off $1.5 million in art and $250,000 in furnishings. Pellatt was able to enjoy life in the mansion for less than ten years, leaving in 1923.
In the late 1920s, investors operated Casa Loma for a short time as a luxury hotel. During Prohibition, it became a popular nightspot for wealthy Americans. The Orange Blossoms, later known as Glen Gray and the Casa Loma Orchestra, played there for eight months in 1927–1928. Shortly thereafter, they went on a tour of North America and became a major swing era dance band.

The city seized Casa Loma in 1924 for unpaid taxes, and for years, the building was left vacant. In the 1930s, CFRB broadcaster Claire Wallace spent a night at Casa Loma to gather material for a story about ghosts and supernatural phenomena, and she later broadcast an appeal to save the building from demolition. Her broadcast was heard by the vice-president of a local Kiwanis Club, and subsequently Casa Loma was leased in 1937 by the Kiwanis Club of West Toronto, later the Kiwanis Club of Casa Loma (KCCL), which began operating the mansion under a sole-source contract as a tourist destination.During World War II, the stables were used to conceal research and production of sonar, and for construction of sonar devices (known as ASDIC) for U-boat detection, according to a book about the "castle". The area was closed, behind an "Under Repairs" sign. The suggestion that the stables were under renovation allowed workers of the secret facility to come and go without suspicion. Casa Loma is often claimed to be the location of Station M that manufactured covert devices for agents, claiming that the book Inside Camp X provides this information. In 2015, however, author Lynn Philip Hodgson rejected this in an interview with the Toronto Star. "Nobody knows where Station M was. You won't read where it was in any book."

KCCL managed Casa Loma for 74 years, until 2011. Its tenure was not without controversy, with Pellatt's great-grandniece Trelawny Howell starting a campaign for an open-tender lease process in 2005, and the organization disputing her relationship with Pellatt in 2010. A 2006 advisory committee led by former MPP Ron Kanter, and its subsequent reports, recommended that the city turn the mansion's management over to a new "Casa Loma Trust". However, a city manager's report in 2008 recommended extending the city's lease with KCCL for 20 years, and in July 2008, it was renewed.Meanwhile, from 1997 until 2012, the mansion underwent a 15-year, $33-million exterior restoration largely funded by the city, which also created a new board of trustees in 2008, including seven KCCL members and seven city appointees. The city's renewed management agreement included a stipulation that KCCL would use the mansion's net revenues to help pay for upgrades; however, the organization used the fund to cover operating shortfalls instead, and there was only $335,000 in the account by 2011, rather than the $1.5-million originally projected. As a result, in 2011, the city temporarily resumed management of Casa Loma and began welcoming bids from the private sector in its search for a new operator.In January 2014, the city entered a new long-term lease and operating agreement with Liberty Entertainment Group, led by President and CEO Nick Di Donato, which agreed to spend $7.4 million to continue the mansion's upgrades. The company's plans also included a fine dining facility. The restaurant, Blueblood Steakhouse, opened in summer 2017.Due to COVID-19, tour operations closed as of March 13, 2020 and reopened in September 2020.

Architecture
Sir Henry imported artisans from Europe to design much of the furniture and other features of the mansion. Casa Loma has five acres of gardens. A tunnel connects Casa Loma to the Hunting Lodge and to the stables (garage, potting shed, stalls, carriage room and tack rooms).

Oak Room
The Oak Room (originally called the Napoleon Drawing Room) is the most decorated room in the house, and was used for formal occasions. It is encased in wood panels in the style of Grinling Gibbons, which took three artisans three years to carve. The highly ornamented plaster ceiling was made by Italian craftsmen, and was enhanced by the use of indirect lighting in the ceiling. Among other fixtures, the room featured a 10 feet (3.0 m) high Louis XVI style faux-gilt carved light standard with 24 bulbs.

Other rooms
Other rooms in Casa Loma include The Conservatory, a room that showcases plant life. The Conservatory also includes a fountain at one end of the room. The Round Room is designed to fit beneath the mansion's tower; this room is notable for its doors and windows, which curve to follow the shape of the room.

Main floor
Second floor
Third floor
Basement
Stables
Exterior
Gardens
Parking lots

Exhibits
Girl Guide exhibit
The Girl Guide Exhibit was opened on the second floor of Casa Loma in 1973. The relationship between the Girl Guides and Casa Loma extends back to Lady Pellatt, who frequently invited the Girl Guides to her home. Their first visit was in 1913, when 250 girls and their leaders toured the conservatories and stables, climbed the circular staircase to the top turret and then were served tea in the Palm Room. In March 1914, Lady Pellatt watched the Guides' annual fête from her bedroom window as she was too ill to leave her room. Rallies became an annual event at the house. Guides also skated on the house's curling rink in winter. Girl Guiding events have continued in recent years, including the 75th anniversary and the 100th anniversary celebrations of Guiding in Canada were held at Casa Loma.

Vintage car exhibition
As of 2014, the garage and carriage room feature an exhibition of vintage cars from the early 1900s.

Location
Casa Loma is located on Austin Terrace at Spadina Road, on an escarpment (Davenport Hill) above Davenport Road. Davenport runs along the bottom of the escarpment, which was the shoreline of Lake Iroquois, the predecessor of Lake Ontario (coordinates 43.678°N 79.4093°W﻿ / 43.678; -79.4093). Casa Loma affords views down the escarpment and Spadina Avenue into the heart of Toronto. The stables are located at 330 Walmer Road and the Hunting Lodge at 328 Walmer Road.
Casa Loma is served by St. Clair West Station and Dupont Station on the Yonge-University line of the Toronto subway.

Film location
Casa Loma is a popular location for use in film and television. It has served as a location for movies such as X-Men, Strange Brew, Chicago, The Tuxedo, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, Warehouse 13, Crimson Peak, Twitches, Twitches Too, The Pacifier, and Titans where it stands in for Wayne Manor. Comic books and children's novels that have used it include the Scott Pilgrim series and Eric Wilson's murder mystery The Lost Treasure of Casa Loma. It was also temporarily transformed into Hogwarts for the release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows as well as The Beast's Castle for Disney's 2017 live action Beauty and The Beast remake of the 1991 animated film. In the CBC Television show Being Erica, the episode "Mi Casa, Su Casa Loma" features Casa Loma prominently as the place where main character Erica Strange works.It also served in the film adaptation of R. L. Stine's Goosebumps series A Night In Terror Tower. Casa Loma also features prominently in the biography-documentary of Sir Henry Pellatt, The Pellatt Newsreel: the Man who Built Casa Loma, which was nominated for a 2009 Gemini for Best Biography Documentary. TV show Hemlock Grove was also filmed there as well as The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones and related Shadowhunters
Exterior shots of the building were used in the Gothic TV show Strange Paradise.It is also the filming location of the 2016 TV film The Rocky Horror Picture Show: Let's Do the Time Warp Again, where scenes at Dr. Frank N. Furter's castle and the movie theatre where the audience participated were filmed. Ivy Levan's performance of the song "Science Fiction Double Feature" was filmed at Casa Loma (a movie theatre marquee was placed at the front entrance of the castle for filming).In 2018, Casa Loma served as a filming location for the 2019 American black comedy thriller Ready or Not.In 2022, Casa Loma was the filming location of the music video for Wait for U by Future and Drake.

See also
Mary Lake Augustinian Monastery
List of museums in Toronto

Further reading
Denison, John (1982). Casa Loma and the Man Who Built It. Boston Mills Press. ISBN 978-0919822481.
Oreskovich, Carlie (1982). Sir Henry Pellatt, the King of Casa Loma. MaGraw-Hill Ryerson. ISBN 978-0075484561.
Passage 9:
Castle on the Hill
"Castle on the Hill" is a song by English singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran. It was released on 6 January 2017 as one of the double lead singles from his third studio album ÷ (2017), along with "Shape of You". "Castle on the Hill" was written and produced by Ed Sheeran and Benny Blanco. The song refers to Framlingham Castle in Sheeran's home town of Framlingham in Suffolk, and reminisces tales of his upbringing in the town. The BBC states, "the song has been described as a love letter to Suffolk."Released on the same day as "Shape of You", "Castle on the Hill" reached number one in Iceland, Scotland and 
Israel. The song also reached  number two in a number of countries, including the UK, Australia and Germany, while "Shape of You" debuted at number one. It was the first time in the history of the UK, Australian and German charts that an artist has taken the top two chart positions with new songs. The song debuted at number six in the US, while "Shape of You" entered at number one; this made Sheeran the first artist ever to have two songs simultaneously debut in the US top 10. "Castle" is certified nine-times platinum in Australia, Diamond in Canada and 6-times platinum the UK, and multiplatinum in numerous other countries.

Background
The theme of the song surrounds Sheeran's home town of Framlingham, and he reminisces tales of 'smoking hand-rolled cigarettes' and getting 'drunk [with] friends' at this place, living life as a teenager. The castle mentioned in the song is Framlingham Castle, and in January 2017, Sheeran was invited to perform at the Castle.The song was written and recorded in 2015. Sheeran revealed that despite a similarity to the music of U2, the direct influence of the song came from "Fallen Empires" by Snow Patrol, a band he had toured with. He said: "I grew up on Snow Patrol, I didn't grow up on U2, but I know that Snow Patrol grew up on U2, so I know [where] that influence had come [from]."  He also said he wanted to make a song like "The River" by Bruce Springsteen, a song with similar reflective element.

Critical reception
Jon Caramanica from The New York Times said, "'Castle on the Hill' has U2 influenced nervous guitar builds and wistful, largely generic lyrics about the people who shaped him." Billboard's Taylor Weatherby wrote about the song saying, "'Castle on the Hill' has a Train like vibe with a fast-paced, yet powerful melody that builds to an epic chorus that's just as Sheeran as all of his past singles. Needless to say, Sheeran is telling the world he's back in compelling fashion." Jeremy Gordon of Spin gave the song a positive review, stating that the song "sort of sounds like late period Coldplay, big, broad stroke music for arenas and Wembley performances. There's a lyric about driving down a country road while listening to Elton John's hook-free 'Tiny Dancer,' because Ed Sheeran saw Almost Famous once." Adam Starkey from news website Metro states that it "'has echoes of Mumford & Sons with the kind of climbing drums and soaring chorus sure to win over festival crowds, recalling how far he's come from 'smoking hand-rolled cigarettes' and 'running from the law in the backfields'."

Chart performance
"Castle on the Hill" debuted at number two on the UK Singles Chart on 13 January, selling 193,000 combined units in its first week. Sheeran also debuted at number one with "Shape of You", making him the only artist in UK chart history to debut in the top two positions in the same week. The song was certified silver in the first week due to selling 200,000 units. The song remained at number two in its second week, selling 100,000 units. The song spent a further three weeks at number two, and spent fourteen weeks in the top ten altogether. As of September 2017, the song has sold 1.7 million combined units in the UK, 479,000 of these are actual sales, with 119 million streams. On the Scottish Singles Chart, "Castle on the Hill" debuted at number one, ahead of "Shape of You".The song debuted at number six on the Billboard Hot 100, selling 171,000 downloads and gaining 13 million streams in its debut week in the US. Sheeran also became the first artist to debut two songs in the top 10 in the same week in the history of the Hot 100, with "Shape of You" also debuting at number one. As of September 2017, "Castle on the Hill" has sold 821,000 downloads in the US.

Music video
"Castle on the Hill" was accompanied by a lyric video on 5 January 2017 with "Shape of You" upon its release. By March 2018, it had amassed over 300 million views on YouTube.The official music video for the song was released on 23 January 2017. It was directed by George Belfield and produced by Tom Gardner, and it features a group of adolescents living their youth with parallels being made to Sheeran's own youth. The video was filmed throughout Suffolk with locations including Framlingham, Boyton marshes, Mildenhall Stadium and Felixstowe. The final shot shows Framlingham Castle. Ed Sheeran stated on The Graham Norton Show that the young man playing him in the video went to the same school as Sheeran, Thomas Mills High School.

In popular culture
The song was used in trailers and several TV spots for the 2017 animated film Ferdinand.The song is also used in the first trailer and a few TV spots for the 2019 animated film How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World.

Formats and track listings
Digital download"Castle on the Hill" – 4:21Digital download – Acoustic"Castle on the Hill" (Acoustic) – 3:46Digital download – Live at the BRITs"Castle on the Hill" (Live at the BRITs) – 1:47German CD single"Castle on the Hill" – 4:21
"Castle on the Hill" (Acoustic) – 3:46Digital download – Seeb remix"Castle on the Hill" (Seeb remix) – 3:51Digital download – Throttle remix"Castle on the Hill" (Throttle remix) – 3:40Digital download – NWYR remix"Castle on the Hill" (NWYR remix) – 3:33

Charts
Certifications
Release history
See also
Lists of Scottish number-one singles of 2017
Passage 10:
Katzenstein Castle
Katzenstein Castle is one of the oldest remaining Hohenstaufen castles in Germany. It is located in a borough that shares its name with the castle in the Dischingen municipality of the Heidenheim district of Baden-Württemberg. The castle is open to visitors and contains several dining rooms as well as hotel rooms.

Location
This hill castle is located in the valley of a tributary of the Egau river on the Härtsfeld in Heidenheim district near an old Roman road running from Faimingen in Lauingen to Bopfingen known as the Frankensträßle (English: Frankish avenue). Burg Katzenstein is located 538 metres (1,765 ft) above sea level.

History
In 1099, the Lords von Cassenstein were first mentioned.  The family was a ministerial or unfree knightly family in the service of the Graf (or Count) von Dillingen. In 1262, Edlen von Hürnheim was listed as the owner of the castle von Katzenstein when it was sold by Hermann von Hürnheim-Katzenstein.
Ownership changed again in 1354 when the Graf von Oettingen acquired the castle.  He quickly pawned the castle on the Graf von Helfenstein, who gave the castle to Berthold von Westerstetten in 1382.  In 1572, the Katzenstein line wiped out the Westerstetten line.  The inheritance of the Westerstetten family was sold again to the von Oettingen family.
The castle was burned to the ground by French soldiers in 1648, at the end of the Thirty Years' War. The castle was rebuilt in 1669.
Burg Katzenstein went to the Oettingen-Wallenstein line in 1798. Later, in 1810, the castle was taken over by the state of Württemberg and placed under the district of Neresheim.
Since 1939, the castle has been privately owned.

Sights
In 1973, the St Laurentius chapel was opened and cleaning began.  Under the dirt and partially completed Baroque paintings, impressive Mediaeval paintings were discovered. The fresco paintings date from 1250 to 1280 and show the transition from Romanesque art to early Gothic art.

See also
List of castles in Baden-Württemberg
Passage 11:
Gowran Castle
Gowran Castle is located in the centre of Gowran, County Kilkenny, Ireland. The castle is a manor house and was fully restored between 2013 and 2014.

Early years
The first Gowran Castle was built in 1385 by James Butler, 3rd Earl of Ormond, close to the centre of the town of Gowran, Co. Kilkenny, Ireland. He made it his usual residence. James was called the Earl of Gowran. In 1391 he bought Kilkenny Castle and a large part of Co. Kilkenny. James died in Gowran Castle in 1405 and is buried in St. Mary's Collegiate Church Gowran together with his father James Butler, 2nd Earl of Ormond. His grandfather James Butler, 1st Earl of Ormond and his great-great-grandfather Edmund Butler, Earl of Carrick and 6th Chief Butler of Ireland. James the 2nd Earl was usually called The Noble Earl, being a great-grandson, through his mother, of King Edward I of England.
Gowran had been a settled place and a place of importance long before the arrival of the Normans in Ireland in 1169 A.D. Kings of Ossory were often referred to as kings of Gowran. The Mac Giolla Padraig (Modern day family name Fitzpatrick), Chief Rulers of Ossory, had a residence in Gowran. O’Donnchadha (Dunphy) was the chief of Gowran and most of the area around it. Local place names like Rathvaun, Rathcash, Rathcusack, and Rathgarvan, signified the presence of raths where people lived, farmed and foraged for a livelihood. Raths were also burial places. Larger sites were called Duns. The village of Dungarvan (Co. Kilkenny) also in the parish of Gowran is another example of such a settlement. The presence of the 3rd/4th Century Christianised Ogham stone on display in the historic St. Mary’s Collegiate Church Gowran would also indicate a place of residence and worship dating back 2000 years.
There are other ancient sites close to Gowran. For example, nearby Tullaherin Church, graveyard and Round Tower dating to the 6th Century. Freestone Hill situated 4 km from Gowran was a Bronze Age and Iron Age settlement where Roman coins and other artefacts were found during archaeological surveys in 1948 and 1951.

Butler of Ormond Influence
The Butlers were in possession of the lands in the Gowran area for almost 500 years. Following the Norman Invasion of Ireland in 1169 a grant of 44,000 acres, the Manor of Gowran was made to Theobald Fitzwalter (Theobald Walter, 1st Baron Butler) 1st Chief Butler of Ireland.

Other Gowran Butler Castles
In addition to building Gowran Castle, the Butlers built other castles in the area such as Ballysean Castle (Sometimes spelt Ballyshawnmore, Ballysheanmor, Ballyshanemore) near the centre of Gowran, Neigham Castle 4 km from Gowran and Paulstown Castle situated between Gowran and Paulstown 3 km from Gowran.

Agar Family
Following the Cromwellian invasion in Ireland in 1650, Gowran was besieged by Oliver Cromwell. Gowran Castle was attacked and badly damaged. For the following 300 years, the Agar family were a major influence in the Gowran area. Several generations of the Agars occupied Gowran Castle and like the Butlers before them, many of them are buried in St. Mary’s Collegiate Church Gowran.

Time Line
489 AD - Kings of Ossory referred to as kings of Gowran had a residence in the area
754 - Battle of Bealach Gabhrán (Old name for Gowran)
938 - Gowran and the area around it was part of the ancient cantreds of Oskelan and Ogenty which formed part of the lands of Ossory. The Gowran area was occupied by the  O Dunphy clans. The Mac Giolla Padraig were the chief rulers of Ossory at the time.
1169 - After the Norman invasion the Manor of Gowran was 44 000 acres
1385 - James Butler, 3rd Earl of Ormond  builds a castle close to the town wall and makes it his usual residence.
1391 - James Butler, 3rd Earl of Ormond  bought Kilkenny Castle  and a large part of Kilkenny
1501 - Margaret FitzGerald, Countess of Ormond rebuilt Gowran Castle. She also decorated St. Mary's Collegiate Church Gowran.
1650 - Oliver Cromwell and his army attacks the Castle and badly damages it.
1710 - Lewis Chaigneau, a Dublin merchant owner of Gowran Castle has Gowran and Castle grounds surveyed. In the survey map produced, the castle and the walled town of Gowran are shown
1713 - Henry Agar builds a new castle close to the Butler Castle using materials from the former Castle.
1747 - Following the death of Henry Agar in 1746 his wife Ann offered for sale stock of Henry Agar decd, sheep, cattle horses, at Castle. Also, colts & fillies got on mares by horses from England. Henry inherited the Gowran Castle estate from his father James Agar in 1733. As a result of his marriage, he acquired an interest in the Ellis family's Dublin property on the R. Liffey between Arran Quay and Phoenix Park; this property later passed into the Agar family. He died on 18 November 1746. His widow married 2nd, 20 January 1753, George Dunbar of Co. Fermanagh, and died on 14 April 1765; she was buried in Christ Church Cathedral, Dublin, on 17 April 1765. Administration of her effects was granted by the Prerogative Court of Armagh to her second husband, on 11 September 1765.
1700s - By the end of the 1700s, many of the aristocracy had moved away from Ireland and lived in England following the 1798 rebellion.
1816–1819 - Henry Agar 2nd Viscount Clifden rebuilt the Castle (current building) to the designs of William Robertson.
1839 - The first Ordnance Survey of Ireland maps show the Gowran Castle Demesne containing 846 Acres, 2 Rood, 10 Perches of land.
1840 - Gowran Castle Cricket Club grounds were laid out sometime after 1840 by Lord Clifden. The first recorded cricket match was played there in 1842.
1876 - Henry George Agar -  Ellis, 4th Viscount Clifden, (Henry George was son of Henry Agar-Ellis, 3rd Viscount Clifden and great-grandson of Henry Wellbore Agar  - Ellis 2nd Viscount Clifden) Gowran Castle, is listed in Griffiths Valuation as owning 35,288 acres of land.
1900 - Ordnance Survey, showing the Gowran Castle and demesne lands of c.1000 acres, additional lands being added to the estate since the 1839 ordnance surveys.
1953 - On 19 February 1953 Thomas Derrig minister for lands was asked a question in Dail Eireann by Mr Crotty regarding the propriety of the Land Commission acquiring the Annaly Estate Gowran Co. Kilkenny for division. In his reply, the minister said that proceedings were in progress for the acquisition of 774 acres of the estate.
1957 - Gowran Castle and c.68 acres of land sold to James and Mary Moran by the Land Commission on 14 May 1957. The Moran family resided in the castle until it was sold in 1998.
1998 - Castle and c.65 acres offered for sale on 27 May at public auction. Tarajan Ltd., a company registered in the Isle of Man owned by a Northern Ireland developer Alastair Jackson purchased the property from Kevin Fennelly and Caitriona Fennelly (Nee Moran). Following the sale of the property, applications were made by Tarajan to Kilkenny Co. Council to build houses on the estate.
1999 - Planning permission was refused by Kilkenny Co. Council for a housing development consisting of 156 dwellings on the site.
2004 - Planning permission was refused for a development which included the change of use of the Castle to a hotel, building 126 residential units, 23 holiday units and other developments.
2009 - The castle lay unoccupied and unprotected for the previous eleven years and was falling into dereliction. Concerns were expressed by the Gowran Development Association to the Kilkenny Co. Council and local elected representatives about the rapid deterioration of the Castle and its state of dereliction. At a public meeting in Gowran to discuss the Local Area Plan for Gowran, further concerns were expressed. Following the meeting, a Draft Local Area plan for Gowran was drawn up by Kilkenny  Co. Council.
2010 - There was a fire in the castle on 16 May 2010. Fortunately, the fire services were quickly alerted. Following their prompt arrival on the scene, the fire was brought quickly under control. Although considerable damage was caused by the fire, the castle was saved from total destruction.On 20 December 2010 the Local Area Plan for Gowran, was approved by the Kilkenny  Co. Council. The plan was drawn up in consultation with local residents of Gowran. The Castle and area surrounding it was designated "Tourism and Amenity".  The area surrounding the castle is also an archaeologically sensitive area.2011 - Following the collapse of the Irish economy in 2008, the Castle portfolio was taken over by NAMA.
2012 - NAMA appointed Lisney as receivers to the  Castle Property Portfolio. The Castle Portfolio was offered for sale after the appointment of Sherry Fitzgerald auctioneers. Kilkenny partners were Mc Creery Auctioneers.
2013 - Castle sold. Restoration work begins on the castle

See also
St. Mary's Collegiate Church GowranThe History and Antiquities of the Diocese of Ossory. Vol 3. Rev. Canon William Carrigan 1905
Life Through our Viewfinder. Published by Dalton House Gowran 2009
Passage 12:
788 Hohensteina
788 Hohensteina is a main-belt asteroid discovered on 4 April 1914 by Franz Kaiser at Heidelberg-Königstuhl State Observatory. Named for castle Hohenstein located in the Taunus mountains.
Passage 13:
Let Your Spirit Fly
"Let Your Spirit Fly" is a song performed by Jan Johansen and Pernilla Wahlgren in Sweden's preselection for the Eurovision Song Contest, Melodifestivalen 2003. The song finished in second place.
The song was later covered by Ragni Malmsten and Philipp Kirkorov.

Charts
Passage 14:
Czocha Castle
Czocha Castle (pronounced Cho-ha [ˈt͡ʂɔxa], German: Tzschocha, Latin: Caychow) is a defensive castle in the village of Sucha (Gmina Lesna), Lubań County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in southwestern Poland. The castle is located on the Lake Leśnia, near the Kwisa river, in what is now the Polish part of Upper Lusatia. Czocha castle was built on gneiss rock, and its oldest part is the keep, to which housing structures were later added.

History
Czocha Castle began as a stronghold, on the Bohemian-Lusatian border. Its construction was ordered by Wenceslaus I of Bohemia, in the middle of the 13th century (1241–1247). In 1253 castle was handed over to Konrad von Wallhausen, Bishop of Meissen. In 1319 the complex became part of the dukedom of Henry I of Jawor, and after his death, it was taken over by another Silesian prince, Bolko II the Small, and his wife Agnes (see Duchy of Silesia). Origin of the stone castle dates back to 1329.
In the mid-14th century, Czocha Castle was annexed by Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor and King of Bohemia. Then, between 1389 and 1453, it belonged to the noble families of von Dohn and von Kluks. Reinforced, the complex was besieged by the Hussites in the early 15th century, who captured it in 1427, and remained in the castle for unknown time (see Hussite Wars). In 1453, the castle was purchased by the family of von Nostitz, who owned it for 250 years, making several changes through remodelling projects in 1525 and 1611. Czocha's walls were strengthened and reinforced, which thwarted a Swedish siege of the complex during the Thirty Years War. In 1703, the castle was purchased by Jan Hartwig von Uechtritz, influential courtier of Augustus II the Strong. On August 17, 1793, the whole complex burned in a fire. 
In 1909, Czocha was bought by a cigar manufacturer from Dresden, Ernst Gutschow, who ordered major remodelling, carried out by Berlin architect Bodo Ebhardt, based on a 1703 painting of the castle. Gutschow, who was close to the Russian Imperial Court and hosted several White emigres in Czocha, lived in the castle until March 1945. Upon leaving, he packed up the most valuable possessions and moved them out.
After World War II, the castle was ransacked several times, both by soldiers of the Red Army, and Polish thieves, who came to the so-called Recovered Territories from central and eastern part of the country. Pieces of furniture and other goods were stolen, and in the late 1940s and early 1950s, the castle was home to refugees from Greece (see Greek Civil War). In 1952, Czocha was taken over by the Polish Army. Used as a military vacation resort, it was erased from official maps. The castle has been open to the public since September 1996 as a hotel and conference centre. 
The complex was featured in several movies and television series, including a popular 1963 comedy, Gdzie jest generał? (Where is the General?), Legenda, The Hexer (film), The Hexer (TV series), Beyond Sherwood Forest, Spellbinder and serial The Secret of the Cipher Fortress.
Since 2014 the castle is also used as a setting for College of Wizardry, a live action role-playing game (LARP) that takes place in their own universe and can be compared to Harry Potter. There was a hiatus in 2019 after ongoing issues within its founding organization threatened to end the series. However, a crowdfunding action saved the LARP and a new organizing team has continued organizing events at the castle.

Gallery
See also
List of castles in Poland
Passage 15:
Spirit Mountain Wilderness
Spirit Mountain Wilderness Area is a 33,518-acre (13,564 ha) wilderness area located in the Newberry Mountains in Clark County, Nevada, 10 miles (16 km) northwest of Laughlin. Spirit Mountain lies within the area.  It is managed by the Bureau of Land Management and the National Park Service.
Most of the wilderness is located in the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, and all of it is within Avi Kwa Ame National Monument. The area is adjacent to both the Nellis Wash Wilderness Area and the Bridge Canyon Wilderness Area.
Ancient Native American petroglyphs abound in Grapevine Canyon, located just south of Spirit Mountain. Located within the Lake Mead National Recreation Area just west of the 67-mile-long Lake Mohave, Grapevine Canyon offers visitors the opportunity to see numerous abstract, anthropomorphic, and animal depictions pecked directly into the basalt rock near the mount of the canyon. A parking area with restrooms is provided and a about a half-mile walk through desert scrub is required to see the petroglyphs. Ranger-guided hikes are offered by National Park Service staff based at Katherine Landing, located on the east side of Lake Mohave 2 miles north of Bullhead City, Arizona, and accessed via Arizona Highway 95 and Highway 68.  
The area was in the homeland of the Yuman Indians.  Yuman and Mojave people believe all life began on this mountain, which is visible for miles from Bullhead City in Arizona, Needles in California, and  Laughlin, Cal-Nev-Ari, and Searchlight in Nevada. Descendants of the first Native Americans to reside in the area still live on the Fort Mojave Indian Reservation, located about 20 miles south of the Spirit Mountains Wilderness.
The United States Congress designated the Spirit Mountain Wilderness in 2002.

Notes
External links
Spirit Mountain Wilderness - NPS
Spirit Mountain Wilderness Fact Sheet - BLM
Passage 16:
Kevin Drew
Kevin Drew (born September 9, 1976) is a Canadian musician and songwriter who, together with Brendan Canning, founded the expansive Toronto baroque-pop collective Broken Social Scene. He was also part of the lesser-known KC Accidental, which consisted of Drew and Charles Spearin, another current member of Broken Social Scene.
Drew has shared in the direction of Broken Social Scene videos under the name Experimental Parachute Movement.  In 2008 he wrote and directed a short film called "The Water," inspired by and starring his bandmate and former girlfriend Leslie Feist. In 2009, Drew contributed to the AIDS benefit album Dark Was the Night produced by the Red Hot Organization.
Drew grew up in west Toronto and attended the Etobicoke School of the Arts, along with Metric's Emily Haines, Stars' Amy Millan and novelist Ibi Kaslik, where he, Amy and Emily studied drama.  He was married to Jo-ann Goldsmith, a social worker and an occasional trumpet player in BSS.
Drew's second solo album, Darlings, was released on March 18, 2014.On January 15, 2013, Drew announced in an interview that he had begun working on a new album with The Archies songwriter Andy Kim. The album, It's Decided, was released in 2015.Drew's third solo album, Influences, was released on July 16, 2021. He wrote the album while staying in England during 2020, using a music making smartphone app called Endlesss. The album was recorded and mixed on Drew's return to Canada.

Production
Drew and Dave Hamelin coproduced The Tragically Hip's album Man Machine Poem, and Gord Downie's subsequent solo album Secret Path.
Drew also produced Downie's final album Introduce Yerself and Reuben and the Dark's third album, un love.

Discography
Solo
Spirit If... (2007)
Darlings (2014)
Influences (2021) (as K.D.A.P.)

Broken Social Scene
Feel Good Lost (2001)
You Forgot It in People (2002)
Bee Hives (2004)
Broken Social Scene (2005)
Forgiveness Rock Record (2010)
Hug of Thunder (2017)

KC Accidental
Captured Anthems for an Empty Bathtub - (1998)
Anthems for the Could've Bin Pills - (2000)

Videography
Experimental Parachute Movement
Apostle of Hustle
Cheap Like Sebastian
Broken Social Scene
Ibi Dreams of Pavement (A Better Day)
Almost Crimes (with Chris Mills)
Cause=Time
Fire Eye'd Boy
Constantines
Our Age 2009
Stars
Your Ex-Lover is Dead
Bitches in Tokyo
Still Life Still
Pastel
The Most Serene Republic
Content Was Always My Favourite Colour
The Water (2009) Starring Cillian Murphy, David Fox & Feist
Passage 17:
Krimulda Castle
The Krimulda Castle (German: Burg Kremon) is located just outside Sigulda, Sigulda Municipality in the Vidzeme region of Latvia and is a tourist attraction. The castle dates from the 14th century and was destroyed in a war in 1601.
Prince Liven’s living house was built in the classic style. The manor complex consists of steward’s house, coach house, Swiss cottage, etc. Home wine tasting is available by prior arrangement.

History
During the 13th century, the left bank of the Gauja river was governed by the Order of the Brethren of the Sword,  (later known as the Order of Livonia), while the territories on the right bank were under the domain of the Archbishop of Riga. Krimulda castle belonged to the Riga High Council which was a group of twelve high priests who advised the archbishop.
Krimulda castle was built on the edge of a high bank on the right side of Gauja near the Vikmeste castle mound and the village of Livs. This placement made it nearly impossible to conquer. On one side it was protected by the steep valley wall of Gauja river, two additional sides were obstructed by the Vikmeste river, which had equally steep banks, and the fourth side bordered on a man-made ravine with a draw-bridge leading into the forecastle. The deep valley of the Vikmeste River also provided a natural borderline between the lands of Krimulda and Turaida.
The castle was built using large-sized boulders. The outer wall of the castle at ground level was about 2 meters/6–7 feet thick.
The castle was involved in a number of battles between the Livonian Order and the Archbishop of Riga as well as many of the later wars of Livonia. In the spring of 1601 during the Swedish-Polish war, it was conquered by the Swedish army. In the fall of that same year advancing Polish troops burned the castle down so it would not fall into the hands of the enemy. The castle was left unrepaired after the fire.
The castle regained purpose in the mid-19th century under the ownership of Prince Lieven, though not as a military fortification but as a romantic addition to a park.

Gallery
Krimulda Castle ruins in 2014.

See also
List of castles in Latvia
Sigulda Castle
Turaida Castle
Passage 18:
Edelweiss (song)
"Edelweiss" is a show tune from the 1959 Rodgers and Hammerstein musical The Sound of Music. It is named after the edelweiss, (Leontopodium nivale), a white flower found high in the Alps. The song was created for the 1959 Broadway production of The Sound of Music, as a song for the character Captain Georg von Trapp. In the musical, Captain von Trapp and his family sing this song during the concert near the end of Act II.  It is a statement of Austrian patriotism in the face of the pressure put upon him to join the navy of Nazi Germany following the Anschluss (Nazi annexation of their homeland). It is also Captain von Trapp's subliminal goodbye to his beloved homeland, using the flower as a symbol of his loyalty to Austria. In the 1965 film adaptation, the song is also sung by the Captain earlier in the film when he rediscovers music with his children.
This was the final song of Rodgers and Hammerstein's musical collaboration as well as the last song written by Oscar Hammerstein II, who died in August 1960.

Writing
While The Sound of Music was in tryouts in Boston, Richard Rodgers felt Captain von Trapp should have a song with which he would bid farewell to the Austria he knew and loved. Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II decided to write an extra song that von Trapp would sing in the festival concert sequence towards the end of the show. As they were writing it, they felt this song could also use the guitar-playing and folk-singing talents of Theodore Bikel, who had been cast as the Captain. The Lindsay and Crouse script provides the metaphor of the simple edelweiss wildflower as a symbol of the Austria that Captain von Trapp, Maria, and their children knew would live on, in their hearts, despite the Nazi annexation of their homeland. The metaphor of this song builds on an earlier scene when Gretl presents a bouquet of edelweiss flowers to Baroness Elsa Schräder, during the latter's visit to the von Trapp household.
Rodgers provided a simple, yet haunting and affecting, waltz-time melody, to the simple Italian style ritornello lyric that Hammerstein wrote about the appearance of the edelweiss flower. "Edelweiss" turned out to be one of the most beloved songs in the musical, as well as one of the best-loved songs by Rodgers and Hammerstein.
"Edelweiss" is the last song Rodgers and Hammerstein wrote together; Hammerstein was suffering from stomach cancer, which took his life nine months after The Sound of Music opened on Broadway.

Film adaptation
Although the stage production uses the song only during the concert sequence, Ernest Lehman's screenplay for the film adaptation uses the song twice. Lehman created a scene that makes extra use of the song. This scene, inspired by a line in the original script by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse, calls for Captain von Trapp to sing "Edelweiss" with his children in their family drawing room and rediscover the love he felt for them, with Liesl accompanying him. Lehman also expanded the scope of the song when it was sung in the Salzburg Festival concert scene, so that Captain von Trapp and his family would call on the crowds to join in the song with him, in defiance of the Nazi soldiers posted around the arena.
Christopher Plummer played the part of Captain von Trapp in the film adaptation. However, his singing was overdubbed with the voice of Bill Lee despite Plummer recording the song himself. Plummer’s original vocals were discovered by a fan and first posted on YouTube. The Blu-Ray release included a small portion of Plummer’s un-dubbed performance. However, this version has yet to be released officially in its entirety.
An instrumental version of the song is also heard as the final song played during the party as Maria leaves to return to the abbey at the end of the first half of the film.

Austrian attitudes
The edelweiss is a popular flower in Austria and was featured on the old Austrian 1 schilling coin. It can also now be seen on the 2 cent Euro coin. The flower is protected in Austria and illegal to pick. An "edelweiss" is also worn as a cap emblem by certain Austrian Army and the German Gebirgsjäger (mountain troopers) units stationed in the nearby Bavarian Alps.In the original run, the musical The Sound of Music was treated with disdain by Austrians, and the song "Edelweiss" has been singled out for criticism. When US President Ronald Reagan quoted the song in 1984 to toast Austrian President Rudolf Kirchschläger, Austrian newspapers complained that the song was full of clichés and called it "kitsch." When the musical premiered on the national stage in Vienna in 2005, one critic called it "boring" and another referred to "Edelweiss" as "an insult to Austrian musical creation." However, attitudes have improved as film tourism became a bigger attraction than Salzburg's attraction for being the birthplace of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. When the musical premiered in Salzburg in 2011, most performances were sold out.

Misconceptions
The great popularity of the song has led many of its audience to believe that it is an Austrian folk song or even the official national anthem. However, Austria's official anthem is "Land der Berge, Land am Strome", and the anthem used from 1929 until the Anschluss was "Sei gesegnet ohne Ende".
There is similar confusion about another song co-authored by Hammerstein, "Ol' Man River" from the musical Show Boat, which is widely (though erroneously) believed to be an African-American spiritual. The similarity between the misconceptions about the two songs has been noted by two writers, both of whom see it as testament to Hammerstein's talents. Alyson McLamore, in her book Musical Theater: An Appreciation, writes, "The last song to be written for the show was 'Edelweiss,' a tender little homage to a native flower of Austria that has the effect of authentic Austrian folksong, much as 'Ol' Man River' struck listeners as a genuine African American spiritual." Hugh Fordin, in his biography of Oscar Hammerstein, writes about "the ability of the authors to simulate the quality of an authentic folk song... 'Ol' Man River' had the ring of a black laborer's song... Thirty years later, 'Edelweiss' was widely believed to be an old Austrian song, though Oscar...composed it for the Sound of Music."Theodore Bikel, in his autobiography, Theo (2002), wrote that, after a performance, he was once approached by a native Austrian who said, "I love that Edelweiss" and then added, with total confidence, "Of course, I have known it for a long time, but only in German".Another misconception about the song is that it is a real-life Nazi anthem, even though "Edelweiss" is not a pro-Nazi song within the context of The Sound of Music, nor did the song even exist during the Nazi era.

Legal problems
The estates of Rodgers and Hammerstein have not authorized the use of alternative lyrics with the melody of the song, making certain commercial uses of those versions potentially infringing if they do not fall under fair use. Rodgers stated that "he would take legal action against any group" using the "Edelweiss" melody with altered words; the current rightsholders comply with his wishes, refusing to grant permission for these commercial requests, which are "inconsistent with the creators' intentions".

Other versions
Josephine Siao (蕭芳芳) performed a Chinese (Cantonese) version in the 1967 movie Lightning Killer (閃電煞星).
Theodore Bikel, who originated the role of Captain von Trapp on Broadway, performed "Edelweiss" (as a duet with Mary Martin) on the original cast album and included it in his album, In My Own Lifetime – 12 Musical Theater Classics.
The English singer Vince Hill reached #2 in the UK Singles Chart in 1967 with his cover version of the track.
Julie Andrews has recorded it for her Richard Rodgers tribute album Broadway: The Music of Richard Rodgers.
Andy Conaghan recorded the song for ABC Classics as part of a compilation album, I Dreamed a Dream: The Hit Songs of Broadway in 2013.
Stephen Moyer performed the song as part of his role as Captain Georg von Trapp during the December 2013 television broadcast of The Sound of Music Live! on NBC.
The song was frequently performed by The von Trapps, the real life great-grandchildren of the Captain and Maria. It appears on their A Capella album and on their 2014 album, the latter of which is also a duet with Charmian Carr (who played Liesl in the movie).
A performance by Jeanette Olsson is used as the opening sequence music for the Amazon Original Series The Man in the High Castle.
Victor Garber, as his character Martin Stein impersonating Max Lorenz in a Nazi-run Parisian nightclub, sang a cover of this song in Legends of Tomorrow.