Passage 1:
3rd Berlin International Film Festival
The 3rd annual Berlin International Film Festival was held from 18 to 28 June 1953.

Description
This year's festival did not give any official jury prizes; instead awards were given by audience voting. This continued until the FIAPF granted Berlin "A-Status" in 1956.The Golden Bear was awarded to Le Salaire de la peur by audience vote. It was at this edition that the first replica of the Bär first created by sculptor Renée Sintenis, produced by the Noack Foundry, was presented.The festival held a retrospective on silent films.

Films in competition
The following films were in competition for the Golden Bear award:

Key
Awards
The following prizes were awarded by audience votes:
Golden Bear: Le Salaire de la peur by Henri-Georges Clouzot
Silver Bear: Magia verde by Gian Gaspare Napolitano
Bronze Berlin Bear: Sie fanden eine Heimat by Leopold Lindtberg
Passage 2:
Lars Jakobson
Lars Jakobson (1959, Lund) is a Swedish author. Among the awards he won are the Svenska Dagbladet book prize and the Selma Lagerlöf Prize, both in 2006. For many years he lived in  Stockholm.

Bibliography
Vinterkvarteret (novel, 1985)
Vetten (novel, 1986)
Menageri (short stories, 1989)
Pumpan (novel, 1991)
Hemsökelser (short stories, 1994)
Kanalbyggarnas barn (novel, 1997)
I den Röda damens slott. En martiansk biografi (novel, 2000)
Stjärnfall. Om sf (essays, 2003)  (Co-written with Ola Larsmo and Steve Sem-Sandberg)
Berättelser om djur och andra (short stories, 2004)
Vid den stora floden (novel, 2006)
Vännerna (novel, 2010)
Effekter (essays and short stories, 2011)
Passage 3:
The Corrections
The Corrections is a 2001 novel by American author Jonathan Franzen. It revolves around the troubles of an elderly Midwestern couple and their three adult children, tracing their lives from the mid-20th century to "one last Christmas" together near the turn of the millennium. The novel was awarded the National Book Award in 2001 and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize in 2002.
The Corrections was published to wide acclaim from literary critics for its characterization and prose. While the novel's release preceded the September 11 terrorist attacks by ten days, many have interpreted The Corrections as having prescient insight into the major concerns and general mood of post-9/11 American life, and it has been listed in multiple publications as one of the greatest novels of the 21st century.

Plot summary
The novel shifts back and forth through the late 20th century, intermittently following spouses Alfred and Enid Lambert as they raise their children Gary, Chip, and Denise in the traditional Midwestern suburb of St. Jude, and the lives of each family member as the three children grow up, distancing themselves and living on the East Coast. Alfred, a rigid and strict patriarch who worked as a railroad engineer, has developed Parkinson's and shows increasingly unmanageable symptoms of dementia. Enid takes out her frustrations with him by attempting to impose her traditional judgments on her adult children's lives, to their annoyance.
The middle son, Chip, is an unemployed academic living in New York City following his termination as a tenure-track university professor due to a sexual relationship with a student. Living on borrowed money from Denise, Chip works obsessively on a screenplay, but finds no success or motivation to pay off his debts. Following a rejection of his screenplay, Chip takes a job from his girlfriend's estranged husband Gitanas, a friendly but corrupt Lithuanian government official, later moving to Vilnius and working to defraud American investors over the Internet.
Their eldest son, Gary, is a successful but increasingly depressive and alcoholic banker living in Philadelphia with his wife, Caroline, and their three young sons. When Enid attempts to persuade Gary to bring his family to St. Jude for Christmas, Caroline is reluctant, and turns Gary's sons against him and Enid, worsening his depressive tendencies. In return, Gary attempts to force his parents to move to Philadelphia so that Alfred may undergo an experimental neurological treatment that he and Denise learn about.
Also living in Philadelphia, their youngest child Denise finds growing success as an executive chef despite Enid's disapproval and persistent scrutiny of her personal life, and is commissioned to open a new restaurant. Simultaneously impulsive and a workaholic, Denise begins affairs with both her boss and his wife, and though the restaurant is successful, she is fired when they are uncovered. Flashbacks to her childhood show her responding to her repressed upbringing by beginning an affair with one of her father's subordinates, a married railroad signals worker.
As Alfred's condition worsens, Enid attempts to manipulate all of her children into going to St. Jude for Christmas, with increasing desperation. Initially only Gary and Denise are present, Gary having failed to convince his wife or children, while Chip is delayed by a violent political conflict in Lithuania, eventually arriving late after being attacked and robbed of all his savings. Denise inadvertently discovers that her father had known of her teenaged affair with his subordinate, and had kept his knowledge a secret to protect her privacy, at great personal cost. After a disastrous Christmas morning together, the three children are dismayed by their father's condition, and Alfred is finally moved into a nursing home.
As Alfred's condition deteriorates in care, Chip stays with Enid and visits his father frequently while dating a doctor, eventually having twins with her. Denise leaves Philadelphia and moves to New York to work at a new restaurant where she is much happier. Enid, freed of her responsibilities and long-time frustrations with Alfred, slowly becomes a more open-minded person, and enjoys a healthier involvement in her children's and grandchildren's lives, finally stating that she is ready to make some changes in her life.

Themes
The title of The Corrections refers most literally to the decline of the technology-driven economic boom of the late nineties. Franzen makes this clear at the beginning of the book's final chapter, also titled "The Corrections": 

The Correction, when it finally came, was not an overnight bursting of a bubble but a much more gentle let-down, a year-long leakage of value from key financial markets...
(On a more abstract level, the title is an homage to William Gaddis' The Recognitions.)This economic correction parallels the simultaneous "corrections" that Franzen's characters make to their own lives in the novel's final pages. Franzen has said that "the most important corrections of the book are the sudden impingements of truth or reality on characters who are expending ever larger sums of energy on self-deception or denial." Enid becomes more flexible in her worldview and less submissive to her husband's authority, and Chip begins a more mature relationship with a woman, simultaneously reconciling with his father. Gary, the only central character who fails to learn from his mistakes and grow during the course of the novel, loses a lot of money as technology stocks begin to decline.
Another key theme in the book is America's transition from an industrial economy to an economy based largely on the financial, high-tech and service sectors. Alfred, a railroad engineer with a pension and a deep loyalty to his company, embodies the old economic order of mid-twentieth century America. His children, a chef, an investment banker, and a professor/internet entrepreneur, embody the new economic order at the turn of the millennium. Franzen depicts this economic transition most concretely in his descriptions of Denise's workplace, an abandoned Philadelphia coal plant converted into a trendy, expensive restaurant.
The narrative of Chip's involvement with Gitanas' attempt to bring the country of Lithuania to the market – "lithuania.com" on the internet – comments on unrestrained capitalism and the privileges and power of the wealthy while meaningful distinctions between private and public sectors disappear. "The main difference between America and Lithuania, as far as Chip could see, was that in America the wealthy few subdued the unwealthy many by means of mind-numbing and soul-killing entertainments and gadgetry and pharmaceuticals, whereas in Lithuania the powerful few subdued the unpowerful many by threatening violence."
The book addresses conflicts and issues within a family that arise from the presence of a progressive debilitating disease of an elder. As Alfred's dementia and parkinsonism unfold mercilessly, they affect Enid and all three children, eliciting different and, over time, changing reactions. Medical help and hype – the latter in the form of the investigatory method “Corecktall” – do not provide a solution. At the end, Alfred refuses to eat and dies, the ultimate “correction” of the problem.

Reception
The novel won the 2001 National Book Award for Fiction
and the 2002 James Tait Black Memorial Prize, was a finalist for the 2002 Pulitzer Prize, was nominated for the 2001 National Book Critics Circle Award for Fiction and the 2002 PEN/Faulkner Award, and was shortlisted for the 2003 International Dublin Literary Award. According to John Leonard, the novel explores the generation gap and the grasp of one generation on another in a way that reminds you of "why you read serious fiction in the first place". In 2005, The Corrections was included in TIME magazine's list of the 100 best English-language novels since 1923. In 2006, Bret Easton Ellis declared the novel "one of the three great books of my generation." In 2009, website The Millions polled 48 writers, critics, and editors, including Joshua Ferris, Sam Anderson, and Lorin Stein; the panel voted The Corrections the best novel since 2000 "by a landslide".The novel was a selection of Oprah's Book Club in 2001. Franzen caused some controversy when he publicly expressed his ambivalence at his novel having been chosen by the club due to its inevitable association with the "schmaltzy" books selected in the past. As a result, Oprah Winfrey rescinded her invitation to him to appear on The Oprah Winfrey Show.Entertainment Weekly put The Corrections on its end-of-the-decade "best-of" list, saying, "Forget all the Oprah hoo-ha: Franzen's 2001 doorstop of a domestic drama teaches that, yes, you can go home again. But you might not want to."

Style and interpretations
With The Corrections, Franzen moved away from the postmodernism of his earlier novels and towards literary realism. In a conversation with novelist Donald Antrim for BOMB Magazine, Franzen said of this stylistic change, "Simply to write a book that wasn't dressed up in a swashbuckling, Pynchon-sized megaplot was enormously difficult." Critics pointed out many similarities between Franzen's childhood in St. Louis and the novel, but the work is not an autobiography.  Franzen said in an interview that "the most important experience of my life ... is the experience of growing up in the Midwest with the particular parents I had. I feel as if they couldn’t fully speak for themselves, and I feel as if their experience—by which I mean their values, their experience of being alive, of being born at the beginning of the century and dying towards the end of it, that whole American experience they had—[is] part of me. One of my enterprises in the book is to memorialize that experience, to give it real life and form." The novel also focuses on topics such as the multi-generational transmission of family dysfunction and the waste inherent in today's consumer economy, and each of the characters "embody the conflicting consciousnesses and the personal and social dramas of our era." Influenced by Franzen's life, the novel in turn influenced it; during its writing, he said in 2002, he moved "away from an angry and frightened isolation toward an acceptance – even a celebration – of being a reader and a writer."In a Newsweek feature on American culture during the George W. Bush administration, Jennie Yabroff said that despite being released less than a year into Bush's term and before the September 11 attacks, The Corrections "anticipates almost eerily the major concerns of the next seven years." According to Yabroff, a study of The Corrections demonstrates that much of the apprehension and disquiet that is seen as characteristic of the Bush era and post-9/11 America actually predated both. In this way, the novel is both characteristic of its time and prophetic of things to come; for Yabroff, even the controversy with Oprah, which saw Franzen branded an "elitist," was symptomatic of the subsequent course of American culture, with its increasingly prominent anti-elitist strain. She argues that The Corrections stands above later novels which focus on similar themes, because unlike its successors it addresses these themes without being "hamstrung by the 9/11 problem" which preoccupied Bush-era novels by writers such as Don DeLillo, Jay McInerney, and Jonathan Safran Foer.

Film adaptation
In August 2001, producer Scott Rudin optioned the film rights to The Corrections for Paramount Pictures. The rights still have not yet been turned into a completed film.In 2002, the film was said to be in pre-production, with Stephen Daldry attached to direct and dramatist David Hare working on the screenplay. In October 2002, Franzen gave Entertainment Weekly a wish-list for the cast of the film, saying, "If they told me Gene Hackman was going to do Alfred, I would be delighted. If they told me they had cast Cate Blanchett as [Alfred's daughter] Denise, I would be jumping up and down, even though officially I really don't care what they do with the movie."In January 2005, Variety announced that, with Daldry presumably off the project, Robert Zemeckis was developing Hare's script "with an eye toward directing."  In August 2005, Variety confirmed that the director would definitely be helming The Corrections. Around this time, it was rumored that the cast would include Judi Dench as the family matriarch Enid, along with Brad Pitt, Tim Robbins and Naomi Watts as her three children. In January 2007, Variety wrote that Hare was still at work on the film's screenplay.In September 2011, it was announced that Rudin and the screenwriter and director Noah Baumbach were preparing The Corrections as a "drama series project," to potentially co-star Anthony Hopkins and air on HBO. Baumbach and Franzen collaborated on the screenplay, which Baumbach would direct. In 2011, it was announced that Chris Cooper and Dianne Wiest would star in the HBO adaptation. In November 2011, it was announced that Ewan McGregor had joined the cast. In a March 7, 2012, interview, McGregor confirmed that work on the film was "about a week" in and noted that both Dianne Wiest and Maggie Gyllenhaal were among the cast members. But on May 1, 2012, HBO decided not to pick up the pilot for a full series.

Radio adaptation
In January 2015, the BBC broadcast a 15-part radio dramatisation of the work. The series of 15-minute episodes, adapted by Marcy Kahan and directed by Emma Harding, also starred Richard Schiff (The West Wing), Maggie Steed (The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus), Colin Stinton (Rush, The Bourne Ultimatum) and Julian Rhind-Tutt (Lucy, Rush, Notting Hill). The series was part of BBC Radio 4's 15 Minute Drama "classic and contemporary original drama and book dramatisations".
Passage 4:
Lectures on Jurisprudence
Lectures on Jurisprudence, also called Lectures on Justice, Police, Revenue and Arms (1763) is a collection of Adam Smith's lectures, comprising notes taken from his early lectures. It contains the formative ideas behind The Wealth of Nations.

Background
Published as part of the 1976 Glasgow Edition of the works and correspondence of Adam Smith.  It consists of two sets of lecture notes that were apparently taken from Smith's lectures of the 1760s, along with an 'Early Draft' of The Wealth of Nations. The same material had also appeared as An Early Draft of Part of The Wealth of Nations and as Lectures on Justice, Police, Revenue and Arms.

Summary
Smith’s Lectures on Jurisprudence, originally delivered at the University of Glasgow in 1762–1763, present his ‘theory of the rules by which civil government ought to be directed.’ The chief purpose of government, according to Smith, is to preserve justice; and ‘the object of justice is security from injury.’ The state must protect the individual’s right to his person, property, reputation, and social relations. Smith specifically defines the term jurisprudence as "the theory of general principles of law and government". It is also defined as the general guidelines about the essence of a nation's laws. Smith specifically defines the term jurisprudence as "the theory of general principles of law and government". It is also defined as the general guidelines about the essence of a nation's laws.

Part I: Of Justice
Division I. Of Public Jurisprudence
Division II. Domestic Law
Division III. Private Law

Part II: Of Police
The pros and cons of money, prices, and financial exchanges fall under this section of the Lectures "since the regulation of prices and the creation of money by the state both came under the head of police."
Division I. Cleanliness and Security
Division II. Cheapness or Plenty

Part III: Of Revenue
Part IV: Of Arms
Part V: Of the Laws of Nations
Scholarly critique
According to William Caldwell, the lectures accomplish three goals: they detail Smith's philosophy and beliefs about economics, they explain his motivation to write about the historical origins of political societies, and they show the influence of mercantilism and Francis Hutcheson on Smith's thoughts on the political economy. In an article for Political Science Quarterly, Wilhelm Hasbach opines that Smith believed that the political economy is the foundation for morality, law, government, wealth, revenue, and arms, a position that originated from the idea of natural law. He also notes that Smith's relationship with the  physiocrats is important in the Lectures and that some critics state that Smith produced the same concepts as the physiocrats on economics.  Hasbach also states that Smith expands on physiocratic ideas by advocating a freedom of  industry. Smith expects that industry - and also commerce - be  laisser-faire and relevant to all aspects of political economics. Another scholar,  C. F. Bastable, notes that Smith recognizes the need for industry for the production of wealth. Industry creates capital which is much needed in an economically viable society.Hasbach has also written that the Lectures offer a perspective of Smith's view on property that differs from that of John Locke. Smith believes that property does not lie within the individual but rather that it ought to be shared within society.  "The individual and his labor are in no respect the ultimate source of the  right of property in land: the origin of this right is in society." Also, according to Hasbach, Smith rejects a state of nature and the doctrine on an  original contract, two ideas supported by Locke.

Notes
External links
Lectures on Justice, Police, Revenue and Arms on OLL
Lectures on Justice, Police, Revenue and Arms on archive.org
Passage 5:
John Dear
John Dear (born August 13, 1959) is an American Catholic priest, peace activist, lecturer, and author of 35 books on peace and nonviolence. He has spoken on peace around the world, organized hundreds of demonstrations against war, injustice and nuclear weapons and been arrested 85 times in acts of nonviolent civil disobedience against war, injustice, poverty, nuclear weapons and environmental destruction.  
Dear has been nominated several times for the Nobel Peace Prize, including in January 2008 by Archbishop Desmond Tutu. He has served as the director of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, and currently serves as the founder and director of the Beatitudes Center for the Nonviolent Jesus.

Biography
Early life
Dear was born in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, on August 13, 1959. He graduated magna cum laude from Duke University, in Durham, North Carolina, in 1981. He then worked for the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Foundation in Washington, D.C.

Jesuit formation
In August 1982, Dear entered the Society of Jesus, commonly known as the Jesuits, at their novitiate in Wernersville, Pennsylvania. He then spent two years studying philosophy at Fordham University in the Bronx, New York (1984–1986), during which time he lived and worked for the Jesuit Refugee Service in a refugee camp in El Salvador for three months in 1985. 
For his period of regency, he taught at Scranton Preparatory School in Scranton, Pennsylvania, from 1986 to 1988. He then spent a year working at the Fr. McKenna Center, a drop-in center and shelter for the homeless, in Washington, D.C. From 1989 to 1993, he attended the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California, and received two master's degrees in theology from the Jesuit School of Theology at Berkeley. 
He was ordained a Catholic priest in Baltimore, Maryland on June 12, 1993, and began serving as associate pastor of St. Aloysius' Church in Washington, D.C.

Promoting peace and nonviolence
Dear founded Bay Area Pax Christi, a region of Pax Christi USA, the national Catholic peace movement, and began to arrange for Mother Teresa to intervene with various governors on behalf of people scheduled to be executed on death row.
Dear was arrested in scores of nonviolent civil disobedience actions against war, injustice and nuclear weapons—from the Pentagon to Livermore Laboratories in California. On December 7, 1993, he was arrested with three others at the Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro, North Carolina, for hammering on an F-15 nuclear capable fighter bomber. He was jailed, tried and convicted of two felony counts, and served seven-and-a-half months in North Carolina jails and four-and-a-half months, under house arrest in Washington, D.C., followed by 3 years probation. As part of the Plowshares disarmament movement, the defendants argued that they were fulfilling Isaiah's mandate to "beat swords into plowshares," and Jesus' command to "love your enemies."From 1994–1996, Dear served as executive director of the Sacred Heart Center, a community center for low-income African-American women and children, in Richmond, Virginia. In the Spring of 1997, he taught theology for one semester at Fordham University in the Bronx, New York. From 1997–98, he lived in Derry, Northern Ireland, as part of the Jesuit "tertianship" sabbatical program, and worked at a human rights center in Belfast.
From 1998–2001, Dear served as executive director of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, the largest interfaith peace organization in the United States, based in Nyack, New York. In 1999, he led a delegation of Nobel Peace Prize winners on a peace mission to Iraq, and also an interfaith delegation to Palestine/Israel.
Immediately after September 11, 2001, Dear served as a Red Cross coordinator of chaplains at the Family Assistance Center in Manhattan, and personally counseled thousands of relatives and rescue workers. From 2002–04, he served as pastor to five parishes in the high desert of northeastern New Mexico, and founded Pax Christi New Mexico, a region of Pax Christi USA.
In 2006, Dear led a demonstration against the U.S. war in Iraq in Santa Fe, New Mexico. In 2009, he joined the Creech 14 in a civil disobedience protest at Creech Air Force base against the U.S. drone war in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and was arrested and put in the Clark County, Nevada jail for a night. He was later found guilty but given time served.
In January 2014, Dear left the Jesuits and wrote about his leaving in the National Catholic Reporter, saying that the Society of Jesus has turned from its commitment to social justice, and that he would not be permitted to work for peace and disarmament. Dear then joined the Diocese of Monterey, California where he remains a Catholic priest.

Speaker, writer, teacher
Over the years, Dear has given thousands of lectures on peace, disarmament and nonviolence in churches, schools and groups across the United States, and around the world, including national speaking tours of Australia, New Zealand, Scotland, Canada and England.
Dear formerly wrote a weekly column for the National Catholic Reporter and the Huffington Post. He is also featured in several other books and featured in a wide variety of U.S. publications, including The New York Times and The Washington Post. He is featured in the DVD documentary film, The Narrow Path, and the subject of John Dear on Peace, by Patti Normile (St. Anthony Messenger Press, 2009). He has published hundreds of articles (see: www.johndear.org) and over 35 books.

Awards
Dear has received several peace awards, including the 2010 Pacem in Terris Peace and Freedom Award, from the Diocese of Davenport, Iowa; and the Courage of Conscience Award, from Peace Abbey in Boston, Massachusetts.
Dear has been also nominated several times for the Nobel Peace Prize, including a nomination in January 2008 by Archbishop Desmond Tutu and later by Senator Barbara Mikulski.

Bibliography
Disarming the Heart: Toward a Vow of Nonviolence (Foreword by John Stoner)
Jean Donovan and the Call to Discipleship
Christ Is With the Poor: Sayings of Horace McKenna, S.J. (Ed.)
Our God Is Nonviolent: Witnesses in the Struggle for Peace and Justice (Foreword by Elizabeth McAlister)
It's a Sin to Build a Nuclear Weapon: The Writings of Richard McSorley, S.J. (Ed.)
Oscar Romero and the Nonviolent Struggle for Justice
Seeds of Nonviolence (Foreword by Thomas Gumbleton)
The God of Peace: Toward a Theology of Nonviolence (Foreword by James W. Douglass).
The Sacrament of Civil Disobedience (Foreword by Daniel Berrigan)
Peace Behind Bars: A Peacemaking Priest's Journal from Jail (Foreword by Philip Berrigan).
The Road to Peace: Writings on Peace and Justice by Henri Nouwen (Ed.)
Jesus the Rebel (Foreword by Daniel Berrigan)
The Vision of Peace: Writings by Mairead Maguire (Foreword by the Dalai Lama) (Ed.)
The Sound of Listening: A Retreat Journal from Thomas Merton's Hermitage
And the Risen Bread: The Selected Poetry of Daniel Berrigan, S.J. (Ed.)
Living Peace: A Spirituality of Contemplation and Action
Christianity and Vegetarianism: Pursuing the Nonviolence of Jesus (online excerpt)
Mohandas Gandhi: Essential Writings (Ed.)
Mary of Nazareth, Prophet of Peace (Foreword by Joan Chittister)
The Questions of Jesus (Foreword by Richard Rohr)
Testimony: Essays by Daniel Berrigan (Ed.)
Transfiguration (Foreword by Desmond Tutu)
You Will Be My Witnesses (with icons by Rev. William McNichols)
The Advent of Peace
A Persistent Peace: An Autobiography (Foreword by Martin Sheen)
Put Down Your Sword: Essays on Peace and Justice
Daniel Berrigan: Essential Writings (Ed.)
Lazarus Come Forth!: How Jesus Confronts the Culture of Death, and How We Can Too
Thomas Merton Peacemaker
The Nonviolent Life
Radical Prayers
They Will Inherit the Earth: Peace and Nonviolence in a Time of Climate Change
The Beatitudes of Peace
Walking the Way
The Trouble with Our State: Poetry of Daniel Berrigan (ed.)
Praise be Peace
Passage 6:
Gyldendal's Endowment
Gyldendal's Endowment was a literature prize that was awarded in the period 1934–1995 by the Norwegian publisher Gyldendal Norsk Forlag.  The prize was awarded to significant authors, regardless of which publisher the author was associated with.
From 1996 the Gyldendals endowment was superseded by the Gyldendal Prize for "particularly significant writing" and (since 1998) by the Sult-prisen (Hunger Award) for "eminent young authors".

Endowment winners
1934 – Olav Duun
1935 – Peter Egge, Herman Wildenvey, Arnulf Øverland
1936 – Gabriel Scott
1937 – Cora Sandel
1938 – Arthur Omre
1939 – Johan Falkberget
1940 – Sigurd Christiansen, Ronald Fangen, Sigurd Hoel
1941 – Gunnar Reiss-Andersen, Kristian Elster
1942 – Inge Krokann
1943 – Tarjei Vesaas
1944 – Inger Hagerup
1945 – Johan Borgen
1946 – Emil Boyson, Ernst Orvil, Tore Ørjasæter
1947 – Nils Johan Rud
1948 – Ingeborg Møller, Aksel Sandemose
1949 – Gunnar Larsen, Magnhild Haalke
1950 – Egil Rasmussen, Hans Henrik Holm
1951 – Gunvor Hofmo
1952 – Jakob Sande, Mikkjel Fønhus
1953 – Engvald Bakkan
1954 – Agnar Mykle, Terje Stigen
1955 – Bjørn Rongen, Alfred Hauge
1956 – Sigbjørn Hølmebakk
1957 – Eivind Tverbak, Halldis Moren Vesaas
1958 – Astrid Tollefsen
1959 – Alf Larsen, Åge Rønning
1960 – Finn Bjørnseth
1961 – Johannes Heggland, Per Bronken
1962 – Bergljot Hobæk Haff
1963 – Åsta Holth, Arnold Eidslott, Ola Viker
1964 – Aslaug Låstad Lygre, Odd Hølaas
1965 – Marie Takvam, Gisken Wildenvey
1966 – Georg Johannesen, Odd Winger
1967 – Kåre Holt, Per Hansson
1968 – Jan Erik Vold
1969 – Knut Faldbakken
1970 – Espen Haavardsholm, Sigmund Skard, Merete Wiger
1971 – Tor Obrestad
1972 – Jens Bjørneboe
1973 – Tor Edvin Dahl
1974 – Emil Boyson, Nils Johan Rud, Gunvor Hofmo, Bergljot Hobæk Haff, Tor Åge Bringsværd
1975 – Pål Sundvor
1976 – Finn Carling, Sigurd Evensmo
1977 – Jan Jakob Tønseth
1978 – Olav Nordrå, Arne Ruste
1979 – Cecilie Løveid, Wera Sæther
1980 – Marta Schumann, Tormod Haugen
1981 – Gidske Anderson, Stein Mehren
1982 – Ola Bauer, Ketil Gjessing
1983 – Karin Bang, Terje Johanssen
1984 – Mari Osmundsen, Simen Skjønsberg
1985 – Paal-Helge Haugen, Geir Kjetsaa
1986 – Inger Elisabeth Hansen, Erland Kiøsterud
1987 – Hans Herbjørnsrud, Tor Ulven
1988 – Liv Køltzow, Øystein Lønn
1989 – Edvard Hoem, Gunnar Staalesen
1990 – Sigmund Mjelve, Atle Næss
1991 – Kjartan Fløgstad and Herbjørg Wassmo
1992 – Sissel Lie, Steinar Løding og Tor Fretheim
1993 – Britt Karin Larsen, Thorvald Steen
1994 – Kjersti Scheen, Bjørn Aamodt
1995 – Torgrim Eggen, Terje Holtet Larsen
Passage 7:
Adam Smith Prize
The Adam Smith Prizes are prizes currently awarded for the best overall examination performance and best dissertation in Part IIB of the Economics Tripos (the graduation examination for economics undergraduates) at the University of Cambridge. The prize - named after Scottish philosopher and economist Adam Smith - was originally established in 1891 and awarded triennially for the best submitted essay on a subject of the writer's choice.

List of past recipients
1894 Arthur Lyon Bowley
1897 Frederick Pethick-Lawrence, 1st Baron Pethick-Lawrence
1900 Sydney Chapman
1903 Arthur Cecil Pigou
1906 Ernest Alfred Benians
1909 John Maynard Keynes
1929 R. F. Kahn
1930 Ruth Cohen
1932 K. S. Isles
1933 B. P. Adarkar
1935 W. B. Reddaway
1936 D. G. Champernowne
1954 Amartya Sen
1956 Manmohan Singh
1974 Martin Osborne
1987 Richard J. Parkin
2000 Saugato Datta and Richard Fearon
2004 James Benford
2006 Mark Shields
2007 Stefanie Stantcheva
2008 Thomas Mckendrick and Shivam Patel
2009 Praneet Shah
2011 Ossie Akushie and Shafi Anwar
2013 Inna Grinis and Ivan Kuznetsov
2014 James Walker
2015 Ben Andrews and Jonathon Hazell
2016 Isar Bhattacharjee and Toni Oki
2017 Joel Flynn and Joseph Lee
2018 Tireni Ajilore, George Nikolakoudis, Laurence O’Brien and Sajan Shah
2019 Vlastimil Rasocha and Kuishuai Yi
2020 Neal Patel, David Lee, Liam Grant, Andrew Koh and Michael Bennett
2021 Valerie Chuang, Matthew Chen and Jack Golden

See also
List of economics awards
Passage 8:
Faraday Lectureship Prize
The Faraday Lectureship Prize, previously known simply as the Faraday Lectureship, is awarded once every two years (approximately) by the Royal Society of Chemistry for "exceptional contributions to physical or theoretical chemistry". Named after Michael Faraday, the first Faraday Lecture was given in 1869, two years after Faraday's death, by Jean-Baptiste Dumas. As of 2009, the prize was worth £5000, with the recipient also receiving a medal and a certificate. As the name suggests, the recipient also gives a public lecture describing his or her work.

Winners
Source: RSC

See also
List of chemistry awards
Passage 9:
Puffin/Nation Prize for Creative Citizenship
The Puffin Prize for Creative Citizenship is an American award given jointly by Type Media Center (a nonprofit media organization previously associated with The Nation magazine) and the Puffin Foundation. The annual $100,000 award honors artists and others who have "challenged the status quo through distinctive, courageous, imaginative and socially responsible work of significance." The prize is intended to "encourage the recipients to continue their work, and to inspire others to challenge the prevailing orthodoxies they face in their careers." The inaugural award was in 2001.The Puffin Prize for Creative Citizenship was renamed in 2017.  It was formerly known as the Puffin/Nation Prize for Creative Citizenship.

Winners
2001 Robert Parris Moses
2002 Dolores Huerta
2003 David Protess
2004 Barbara Ehrenreich
2005 Jonathan Kozol
2006 Amy Goodman
2007 Michael Ratner
2008 Van Jones
2009 Jim Hightower
2010 Bill McKibben
2010 Cecile Richards
2011 Tony Kushner
2012 Benjamin Todd Jealous
2013 Barry W. Lynn
2014 Frances Fox Piven
2015 William J. Barber II
2016 Bryan Stevenson
2017 Colin Kaepernick
2018 Parkland student activists
2019 The Sunrise Movement
2020 Desmond Meade
2021 The National Network for Abortion Funds
Passage 10:
List of Nobel laureates
The Nobel Prizes (Swedish: Nobelpriset, Norwegian: Nobelprisen) are awarded annually by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, the Swedish Academy, the Karolinska Institutet, and the Norwegian Nobel Committee to individuals and organizations who make outstanding contributions in the fields of chemistry, physics, literature, peace, and physiology or medicine. They were established by the 1895 will of Alfred Nobel, which dictates that the awards should be administered by the Nobel Foundation. An additional prize in memory of Alfred Nobel was established in 1968 by the Sveriges Riksbank (Sweden’s central bank) for outstanding contributions to the field of economics. Each recipient, a Nobelist or laureate, receives a gold medal, a diploma, and a sum of money which is decided annually by the Nobel Foundation.

Prize
Each prize is awarded by a separate committee; the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences awards the Prizes in Physics, Chemistry, and Economics; the Karolinska Institute awards the Prize in Physiology or Medicine; and the Norwegian Nobel Committee awards the Prize in Peace. Each recipient receives a medal, a diploma and a monetary award that has varied throughout the years. In 1901, the recipients of the first Nobel Prizes were given 150,782 SEK, which is equal to 8,402,670 SEK in December 2017. In 2017, the laureates were awarded a prize amount of 9,000,000 SEK. The awards are presented in Stockholm in an annual ceremony on December 10, the anniversary of Nobel's death.In years in which the Nobel Prize is not awarded due to external events or a lack of nominations, the prize money is returned to the funds delegated to the relevant prize. The Nobel Prize was not awarded between 1940 and 1942 due to the outbreak of World War II.

Laureates
Between 1901 and 2017, the Nobel Prizes and the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences were awarded 585 times to 923 people and organizations. With some receiving the Nobel Prize more than once, this makes a total of 892 individuals (including 844 men, 48 women) and 24 organizations. Six Nobel laureates were not permitted by their governments to accept the Nobel Prize. Adolf Hitler forbade four Germans, Richard Kuhn (Chemistry, 1938), Adolf Butenandt (Chemistry, 1939), Gerhard Domagk (Physiology or Medicine, 1939) and Carl von Ossietzky (Peace, 1936) from accepting their Nobel Prizes. The Chinese government forbade Liu Xiaobo from accepting his Nobel Prize (Peace, 2010) and the government of the Soviet Union pressured Boris Pasternak (Literature, 1958) to decline his award. Liu Xiaobo, Carl von Ossietzky and Aung San Suu Kyi were all awarded their Nobel Prize while in prison or detention. Two Nobel laureates, Jean-Paul Sartre (Literature, 1964) and Lê Ðức Thọ (Peace, 1973), declined the award; Sartre declined the award as he declined all official honors, and Thọ declined the award due to the situation Vietnam was in at the time.
Seven laureates have received more than one prize; of the seven, the International Committee of the Red Cross has received the Nobel Peace Prize three times, more than any other. UNHCR has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize twice. Also the Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to John Bardeen twice, as was the Nobel Prize in Chemistry to Frederick Sanger and Karl Barry Sharpless. Two laureates have been awarded twice but not in the same field: Marie Curie (Physics and Chemistry) and Linus Pauling (Chemistry and Peace). Among the 892 Nobel laureates, 48 have been women; the first woman to receive a Nobel Prize was Marie Curie, who received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1903. She was also the first person (male or female) to be awarded two Nobel Prizes, the second award being the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, given in 1911.

List of laureates
50 year secrecy rule
The Committee neither informs the media nor the candidates themselves of the names of the nominees. Insofar as specific names frequently appear in the early predictions of who will receive the award in any given year, this is either pure speculation or inside information from the person or people who submitted the nomination. After fifty years, the database of nominations maintained by the Nobel Committee is made available to the public. Statutes of the Nobel Foundation, § 10, states:A prize-awarding body may, however, after due consideration in each individual case, permit access to material which formed the basis for the evaluation and decision concerning a prize, for purposes of research in intellectual history. Such permission may not, however, be granted until at least 50 years have elapsed after the date on which the decision in question was made.

See also
List of Nobel laureates by country
List of female Nobel laureates
List of nominees for the Nobel Prize in Literature
List of nominees for the Nobel Prize in Chemistry
List of nominees for the Nobel Prize in Physics
List of female nominees for the Nobel Prize
List of individuals nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize
List of organizations nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize

Notes
Passage 11:
Bel Canto (novel)
Bel Canto is the fourth novel by American author Ann Patchett, published in 2001 by Perennial, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers. It was awarded both the Orange Prize for Fiction and PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction. It was placed on several top book lists, including Amazon's Best Books of the Year (2001). It was also adapted into an opera in 2015.
Based on the Japanese embassy hostage crisis (also called the Lima Crisis) of 1996–1997 in Lima, Peru, the novel follows the relationships among a group of young terrorists and their hostages, who are mostly high-profile executives and politicians, over several months. Many of the characters form unbreakable bonds of friendship, while some fall in love.
Opera is a centralizing theme on many levels throughout the story; the operatic term bel canto literally means "beautiful singing."

Plot summary
Set in an unspecified South American country, the story begins at a birthday party thrown at the country's vice presidential home in honor of Katsumi Hosokawa, the visiting chairman of a large Japanese company and opera enthusiast. As a not-so-subtle pretext to get Hosokawa to invest in the country, famous American soprano Roxane Coss is scheduled to perform as the highlight of the party.
Near the end of the party, members of a terrorist organization break into the house, intending to take the President of the country hostage. When they realize the President is not in attendance, the terrorist group decides to take the entire party hostage. After determining they have too many hostages, the terrorists decide to release all of the hostages except those they deem most likely to return a large ransom.
Two major romantic relationships develop as the standoff drags on and serve as the backdrop to the rest of the story. The first is between Coss and Hosokawa, who develop a deep bond even though they do not speak each other's language and thus cannot communicate verbally. The second relationship is between the translator Gen and the young terrorist Carmen, who must keep their love a secret. The two lovers meet in the china closet every night.
At the end of the novel, the government breaks into the house and kills all the terrorists. All of the hostages are freed except for Hosokawa, who is shot by government forces in the struggle. 
In an epilogue that takes place some years later, former hostages Simon Thibault and his wife meet with Gen and Roxane, who are getting married in Italy.

Characters
Katsumi Hosokawa is a Japanese business mogul, who is married with two daughters. He has a strong bond with his young translator Gen. He doesn't speak Spanish and must use Gen for all communication in the host country. Since attending a performance with his father as a child, opera has been his greatest love, and he is passionate about the soprano Roxane Coss, having heard her recordings. He falls in love with the woman herself during their time together. However, he knows their relationship can only last for the duration of the standoff. He is gunned down in the final scenes by the soldiers of the host country, in his attempt to save the teenaged terrorist Carmen.
Roxane Coss is an internationally renowned American soprano. At first a prima donna who sets herself apart from the rest of the guests, she eventually begins to bond with the others when she receives a box of musical scores and begins singing to them every morning. She is especially touched by her relationships with Mr. Hosokawa, with whom she falls in love; Gen, with whom she forms a strong bond and eventually marries; Carmen, who sleeps in her bed, braids her hair, and comforts her; and Cesar, another young terrorist with a gifted singing voice whom she begins tutoring.
Gen Watanabe is Mr. Hosokawa's translator and assistant. He is a quiet, sensitive and gifted young man who speaks several languages. As the translator, he is usually at the center of the action of the novel, although he is the only hostage, besides a priest, who is not fabulously wealthy and powerful. He begins tutoring Carmen when she asks him to teach her how to read and write in Spanish and English, and they begin meeting each night in the china closet to study and eventually make love.
General Benjamin is the most intelligent and thoughtful of the three generals who lead the terrorists. Benjamin was a       schoolteacher until his brother was arrested and imprisoned for handing out flyers publicizing a political protest. After that, he joined the terrorist group La Familia de Martin Suarez, named after a ten-year-old boy who was shot dead while handing out flyers for a political rally. Benjamin has left behind a wife and children, and he is fatherly to some of the young terrorists under his command. He is plagued with shingles, which rage across much of his face.
Joachim Messner is a Swiss representative for the Red Cross. who negotiates between the government and the terrorists. He is the one person allowed to come and go from the mansion. Messner punctuates the general happiness with frequent reminders that the situation will end badly.
Carmen is the terrorist whom Gen loves. Carmen remains incognito in the guise of a male terrorist for the first part of the novel. The leader of the organization, General Benjamin, notices what a beautiful young woman she has become and notes that, "had she been this pretty before, he never would have let her sign up." She often prays to Saint Rose of Lima. In the ultimate shootout, she is gunned down before Gen can get to her. In the ensuing newspaper articles, there is no record of her ever existing.
Simon Thibault is the French ambassador to the South American country where the novel is set. Because he longs for his wife Edith, who is released early with the rest of the women and children, Thibault is the hostage who is most unhappy during the long standoff. He spends much of his time cooking for both the hostages and the terrorists, and he is almost always wearing Edith's scarf. He and Edith are reunited after the standoff, and they are the witnesses to the marriage of Gen and Roxane in the final chapter.

Creative process
Patchett was inspired by the Lima Crisis as she watched the events unfold on the news and thought how operatic the crisis was. Patchett was an opera novice prior to writing the book, although she has stated that the character Roxane was modeled on Karol Bennett, an acquaintance of hers who was an opera singer. Since she was not familiar with Bennett's voice, she listened to recordings by the famous American soprano Renée Fleming and imagined Roxane Coss as possessing Fleming's voice. (Patchett and Fleming became friends only after the novel was published.)
The original working title was How to Fall in Love with Opera, but her editor advised against it in case bookstores would mis-shelve it in their "how to" section. The manuscript originally contained a prologue from Gen's perspective, establishing the book as a story about how he met his wife. However, Patchett's mentor Elizabeth McCracken told her that the prologue was not needed, so Patchett cut it.Patchett has stated that she always wanted to write with an omniscient third person narrator that "moves from person to person within a room"—a style she calls "Anna Karenina-third." Her first two novels were in first-person and her third novel was in third-person, but it was limited to one character's perspective. She was pleased when she was able to write in this style for Bel Canto, deeming her achievement of the style a progression in her writing.

Reception
Sue MacGregor, the broadcaster and chairman of the Orange Prize judges, praised the work, saying, "This is a fine piece of writing, mixing tenderness and danger to an impressive degree." Critic Alex Clark praised the wide range of Patchett's writing, which "encompass[es] both lightning flashes of brutality and terror and long stretches of incarcerated ennui." Several reviews note a departure in style from Patchett's earlier works and credit Bel Canto for pushing her into the national spotlight.Critic James Polk largely praised the novel, but noted Patchett "strained a bit too hard" to highlight the terrorists' humanizing traits, which he argued "diminished the story's taut ambivalence, making some scenes near the end sound almost like accounts of a Boy Scout jamboree." Other reviewers also criticize the slow pacing and unrealistic characterizations, although other critics attribute this to Patchett's brand of magic realism.Bel Canto has been translated into over 30 languages. According to Patchett, it was slated to become a movie five or six times, a Broadway musical, and an opera by Aaron Jay Kernis, commissioned for the Santa Fe Opera's 2006 season, all of which fell through, until the opera came together in 2015 and the film in 2018.

Adaptations
The novel has been adapted under the same title into an opera by composer Jimmy López to a libretto Nilo Cruz. It premiered at the Lyric Opera of Chicago on December 7, 2015.
A film adaptation of the same name from director Paul Weitz with Julianne Moore and Ken Watanabe was released in 2018.The television series Archer parodied Bel Canto during its seventh season with a two-episode arc called "Bel Panto": the visitors of a charity event are taken hostage by a group of clowns seeking to steal a jeweled necklace from a wealthy actress.
Passage 12:
Geoffrey Keynes
Sir Geoffrey Langdon Keynes ( KAYNZ; 25 March 1887, Cambridge – 5 July 1982, Cambridge) was a British surgeon and author. He began his career as a physician in World War I, before becoming a doctor at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London, where he made notable innovations in the fields of blood transfusion and breast cancer surgery. Keynes was also a publishing scholar and bibliographer of English literature and English medical history, focusing primarily on William Blake and William Harvey.

Early life and education
Geoffrey Keynes was born on 25 March 1887 in Cambridge, England. His father was John Neville Keynes, an economics lecturer at the University of Cambridge and his mother was Florence Ada Brown, a successful author and a social reformer. Geoffrey Keynes was the third child, after his older brother, the prominent economist John Maynard Keynes, and his sister Margaret, who married the Nobel Prize–winning physiologist Archibald Hill.
He attended Rugby School, where he became friends with English poet Rupert Brooke. In 1915 he was appointed literary executor for Brooke's estate.
He graduated from Pembroke College, Cambridge, where he earned a first-class degree in the Natural Sciences Tripos. He was later made an honorary fellow of Pembroke College. Keynes then qualified for a scholarship to become a surgeon with the Royal College of Surgeons in London.

Career
First and Second world wars
Keynes delayed his medical education in order to serve in World War I, where he served as a Lieutenant in the Royal Army Medical Corps and then worked as a consultant surgeon, becoming an expert in blood transfusion. His experience in the First World War led him to publish Blood Transfusion, the first book on the subject written by a British author. Keynes also founded the London Blood Transfusion Service with P. L. Oliver. Alexander Bogdanov acquired a copy of this book whilst visiting London to negotiate the Anglo-Soviet Trade Agreement in 1922. Bogdanov went on to found the Institute for Haematology and Blood Transfusions in Moscow.Keynes was deeply affected by the brutality and gore that he witnessed in the field, which may have influenced his dislike for radical surgery later in his career.
Keynes enlisted to be a consulting surgeon to the Royal Air Force at the outbreak of World War II. In 1944 he was promoted to the rank of acting air vice-marshal.

Medical career
Keynes began working full-time at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London, where he worked under George Gask and Sir Thomas Dunhill, after returning from World War I. Keynes used his influence as an assistant surgeon to advocate for limited surgery instead of the invasive radical mastectomy. Frustrated with the mortality rate and gruesomeness of the radical mastectomy, Keynes experimented by inserting 50 milligrams of radium in a patient's tumour. He later observed that, "The ulcer rapidly healed ... and the whole mass became smaller, softer and less fixed."Keynes pursued his new idea through a number of trials, observing the effectiveness of injecting radium chloride into breast cancer tumours compared with the effectiveness of the radical mastectomy. The promising results of these trials led Keynes to be cautiously optimistic, writing in 1927 that the "extension of [an] operation beyond a local removal might sometimes be unnecessary." Keynes' outlook was considered a radical break from the medical consensus at the time. Keynes wrote in his autobiography that his work with radium "was regarded with some interest by American surgeons," but that the concept of a limited mastectomy failed to gain significant traction in the medical community at the time. His doubts regarding the radical mastectomy were vindicated some 50 years later, when innovators like Bernard Fisher and others revisited his data and pursued what became known as a lumpectomy. Limited surgeries, like the lumpectomy, accompanied by radiation are now the standard treatment for breast cancer.Keynes was also a pioneer in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. Much like with breast cancer, the medical community knew little about how to treat the disease at the time. Keynes pioneered the removal of the thymus gland, which is now the standard treatment for myasthenia gravis.In 1955 Keynes received a knighthood for services to medicine.

Literary work
Keynes maintained a passionate interest in English literature all his life and devoted a large amount of his time to literary scholarship and the science of bibliography. He was a leading authority on the literary and artistic work of William Blake. He also produced biographies and bibliographies of English writers such as Sir Thomas Browne, John Evelyn, Siegfried Sassoon, John Donne and Jane Austen. He was also a pioneer in the history of science, with studies of John Ray, William Harvey and Robert Hooke. His biography The Life of William Harvey was awarded the 1966 James Tait Black Memorial Prize. Keynes also collected books, with a personal library with around four thousand works.His autobiography The Gates of Memory was published in 1981, and he died the following year, aged 95. The Gates of Memory includes anecdotes of Keynes' numerous run-ins and friendships with other famous public figures. For example, Keynes often went climbing with George Mallory, the renowned British mountaineer; he also once performed life-saving treatment on Virginia Woolf after the budding author overdosed on pills.

Personal life
On 12 May 1917 Keynes married Margaret Elizabeth Darwin, the daughter of Sir George Howard Darwin and granddaughter of Charles Darwin. They had one daughter, who died in infancy, and four sons:

Harriet Frances Keynes (1918–1918)
Richard Darwin Keynes (1919–2010)
Quentin George Keynes (1921–2003)
William Milo Keynes (1924–2009)
Stephen John Keynes (1927–2017)Keynes dedicated his life to his work and was also sociable with many friends. He took pride in never having been drunk, and was known by most as an affable, well-mannered man.

Legacy
Keynes' contributions profoundly influenced the fields of surgery and English literature. He pioneered limited breast cancer surgery accompanied by radiation, a strategy that has endured the test of time. His work on William Blake "was instrumental in establishing Blake as a central figure in the history of English art and literature."A library of his scholarly works, notes, and correspondences is held by the University of Cambridge.

Works
A Bibliography of Dr. John Donne (1914, 1932, 1958, 1973)
A Bibliography of William Blake (The Grolier Club, New York, 1921)
Blood Transfusion (H. Frowde, London, 1922)
A Bibliography of Sir Thomas Browne (Cambridge, 1924, 1968)
William Pickering, Publisher: A Memoir and a Hand-List of his Editions (The Fleuron, 1924)
Jane Austen: a Bibliography (Nonesuch Press, 1929)
Selected Essays of William Hazlitt 1778 : 1830 (Nonesuch Press, 1930)
The Works of Sir Thomas Browne (Faber & Gwyer / Faber & Faber 1928-1931 [6 volumes], 1964 [4 volumes])
The Note-Book of William Blake (Nonesuch Press, 1935)
John Evelyn: a Study in Bibliophily & a Bibliography of his Writings (Cambridge, 1937)
The Faber Gallery Series: Blake (Faber and Faber, 1945)
The Poetical Works of Rupert Brooke (Faber & Faber, 1946)
William Blake, 1757–1827 (1947)
Poetry and Prose of William Blake (Nonesuch Press, 1948)
The Portraiture of William Harvey (The Thomas Vicary Lecture 1948) (Royal College of Surgeons, 1949)
The Personality of William Harvey (Cambridge University Press: 1949)
William Blake's Engravings, edited with an introduction (Faber and Faber, (1950)
The Tempera Paintings of William Blake (1951)
The Apologie and Treatise of Ambroise Containing the Voyages Made into Divers Places with Many of His Writings Upon Surgery (1951)
Samuel Butler's Note-Books, selections (1951) with Brian Hill
Poems of Rupert Brooke (1954)
A Bibliography of Rupert Brooke (The Soho Bibliographies, No.4) (Rupert Hart-Davis, 1954)
The Letters of William Blake (Rupert Hart-Davis, 1956, 1968)
Harvey Though John Aubrey's Eyes (1958)
A Bibliography of Dr. Robert Hooke (1960)
Essays in Biography 1961 by J. M. Keynes, editor
Dr. Timothie Bright 1550—1615. A Survey of his Life with a Bibliography of his Writings (1962)
A Study of the Illuminated Books of William Blake: Poet, Printer, Prophet (1964)
An Exhibition of the Illuminated Books of William Blake: Poet – Printer – Prophet (1964) with Lessing J. Rosenwald
On Editing Blake (1964)
Blake. The Masters 6 (1965)
Blake: Complete Writings with Variant Readings, editor, Oxford University Press, 1966 (UK-Paperback, Revised). ISBN 0192810502
William Blake. Songs of Innocence and of Experience, editor, with Introduction and Commentary. London: Oxford University Press (1967)
Henry James in Cambridge (1967)
Sir Thomas Browne, Selected Writings (1968)
The Letters of Rupert Brooke (1968)
William Blake Engraver (1969)
William Pickering, Publisher: A Memoir and a Check-List of his Publications (London, Galahad Press, 1969; New York, Burt Franklin, 1969)
Drawings of William Blake: 92 Pencil Studies. Selection, Introduction and Commentary, Dover Publications, Inc., New York, 1970 ISBN 0-486-22303-5
A Bibliography of Sir William Petty F.R.S. and of 'Observations on the Bills of Mortality' by John Graunt F.R.S. Oxford : Clarendon Press (1971)
William Blake's Water-Colours Illustrating the Poems of Thomas Gray (1972)
Deaths Duell by John Donne (Godine, 1973)
The Marriage of Heaven and Hell (Oxford University Press, 1975)
A Bibliography of Henry King D.D., Bishop of Chichester (Douglas Cleverdon, 1977)
The Gates of Memory (Oxford University Press, 1981)
A Watch of Nightingales (Stourton Press, 1981) edited with Peter Davidson
Passage 13:
Sophie Prize
The Sophie Prize was an international environment and development prize (USD 100,000) awarded annually from 1998 to 2013.  It was established in 1997 by the Norwegian author Jostein Gaarder and his wife Siri Dannevig, and is named after Gaarder's novel Sophie's World. It aimed to recognize individuals or organizations working with the environment and sustainable development. In 2013, representatives announced that the prize would not be awarded any longer due to a lack of funds.

Prize winners
1998: Environmental Rights Action, Nigeria
1999: Herman Daly and Thomas Kocherry
2000: Sheri Liao
2001: ATTAC France
2002: Patriarch Bartholomew I
2003: John Pilger
2004: Wangari Maathai
2005: Sheila Watt-Cloutier
2006: Romina Picolotti
2007: Göran Persson
2008: Gretchen Daily
2009: Marina Silva, Brazil
2010: James Hansen
2011: Tristram Stuart
2012: Eva Joly
2013: Bill McKibben

Board members
Åslaug Haga (chair)
Petter Nome (deputy chair)
Helene Bank
Siri Dannevig
Nikolas Dannevig Gaarder
Elin Enge
Thomas Hylland Eriksen
Jostein Gaarder
Elizabeth Hartmann
Dag Olav Hessen
Bård Lahn
Ylva Lindberg
Sidsel Mørck

See also
List of environmental awards
Passage 14:
Million Writers Award
Million Writers Award was a short story literary award presented annually by storySouth from 2003 to 2016. It honored the best online short stories. The award was structured to be egalitarian allowing for anyone to nominate a story including readers, authors, editors and publishers; prize money was donated by readers and writers; and the winners were selected by public vote from a short-list of entries selected by judges.

Overview
The Million Writers Award was founded by author Jason Sanford in 2003 at a time when the literary establishment "didn't believe online magazines were legitimate places to publish fiction," seeing it as a fad. Sanford set out to honor and highlight online only publications and stories with the award.
Stories eligible for the award include those first published in online literary journals, magazines, and e-zines that have an editorial process. The award had a variable cash prize, in 2011 for example it was $600 for the winner, $200 for the runner-up and $100 for third place. Prize money was raised through donations from writers, editors and readers and thus fluctuates each year. Anyone could nominate up to one story, while editors and publishers can nominate three stories. Stories must be at least 1000 words.The award became one of the premier online literary awards and was named a Hot Site by USA Today. The award was profiled in a six-page feature interview with editor Jason Sanford in the 2005 Novel and Short Story Writer's Market and mentioned in The 100 Best Trends, 2006: Emerging Developments You Can't Afford to Ignore as an example of the emerging online literary movement.In 2012 Spotlight Publishing released two anthologies of stories from the Million Writers Award, with one focused on literary stories and the other on science fiction and fantasy stories.

Winners
Previous winners.2003

Top 10 stories:2004

Best story: Randa Jarrar, "You Are a 14-Year-Old Arab Chick Who Just Moved to Texas" (Eyeshot)
Best online publication: Eclectica
Best publisher of novella-length fiction: The King's English
Best new online magazine or journal: Narrative Magazine2005

Best story: Alicia Gifford, "Toggling the Switch" (Narrative Magazine)
Best story runnerup: Terry Bisson, "Super 8" (Scifiction.com)
Best story runnerup: Anjana Basu, "The Black Tongue" (Gowanus)
Best online publication: Strange Horizons
Best publisher of novella-length fiction: The King's English
Best new online magazine or journal: Anderbo2006

Best story: Richard Bowes, "There's a Hole in the City" (Scifiction.com)
Best story runnerup: Michael Croley, "Two Lives" (Blackbird)
Best online publication: Storyglossia
Best publisher of novella-length fiction: Narrative Magazine (co-winner)
Best publisher of novella-length fiction: The King's English (co-winner)
Best new online magazine or journal: Menda City Review (co-winner)
Best new online magazine or journal: Clarkesworld Magazine (co-winner)2007

Best story: Catherynne M. Valente, "Urchins, While Swimming" (Clarkesword Magazine)
Best story runnerup: A. Ray Norsworthy, "All the Way to Grangeville" (Eclectica Magazine)
Best story runnerup: Marshall Moore, "The Infinite Monkey Theorem" (Word Riot)
Best online publication: Blackbird
Best publisher of novella-length fiction: Jim Baen's Universe
Best new online magazine or journal: Farrago's Wainscot2008

Best story: Matt Bell, "Alex Trebek Never Eats Fried Chicken" (Storyglossia)
Best story runnerup: Sruthi Thekkiam, "Friday Afternoons on Bus 51" (Blackbird)
Best online publication: Narrative Magazine
Best publisher of novella-length fiction: (no award)
Best new online magazine or journal: Cha: An Asian Literary Journal2009

Winner: Jenny Williams, "The Fisherman's Wife" (LitNImage)
Runner-up: Roderic Crooks, "Fuckbuddy" (Eyeshot)
Honorable mention: Geronimo Madrid, "No Bullets in the House" (Drunken Boat)
Best online publication: Fantasy Magazine
Best publisher of novella-length fiction: Subterranean Magazine
Best new online magazine or journal: Kill Author2010

Winner: Summer Block, "Hospitality" (Wheelhouse Magazine)
Runner-up: Rachel Swirsky, "Eros, Philia, Agape" (Tor.com)
Honorable mention: Eric Beetner, "Ditch" (Thuglit)
Best online publication: Words Without Borders
Best new online magazine or journal: Lightspeed Magazine2011

Winner: Adam-Troy Castro, "Arvies" (Lightspeed Magazine)
Runner-up: Eric Maroney, "The Incorrupt Body of Carlo Busso" (Eclectica)
Honorable mention: Amal El-Mohtar, "The Green Book" (Apex Magazine)2012

Winner: xTx, "The Mill Pond" (StoryGlossia)
Runner-up: Kelly Cherry, "On Familiar Terms" (Blackbird)
Honorable mention: Micah Dean Hicks, "The Butcher's Chimes" (Menda City Review)2013

First place : Rachel Steiger-Meister, "Chlorine Mermaid" (Carve Magazine)
Second place: Lou Gaglia, "Hands" (Waccamaw)
Third place : Adrienne Celt, "The Eternal Youth of Everyone Else" (Carve Magazine)2014

First place: Caroline Casper, "Eminence" (Carve Magazine)
Second place: Susan Tepper, "Distance" (Thrice Fiction)
Third place: Carmen Maria Machado, "Inventory" (Strange Horizons)2015

First place: Wendy Oleson, “The Snow Children” (Carve Magazine)
Second place: Chikodili Emelumadu, “Jermyn” (Eclectica)
Third place: Allegra Hyde, “Syndication” (Nashville Review)2016

First place: Reza Ghasemi Ataee, "Anatomy of Mr.wakefield" (Time magazine)
Second place: Jude Whelchel, "Big Joy Family" (North Carolina Literary Review)
Third place: Annie Reid, "Last Song" (Baltimore Review)
Passage 15:
Hickinbottom Award
The Hickinbottom Award (also referred to as the Hickinbottom Fellowship) is awarded annually by the Royal Society of Chemistry for contributions in the area of organic chemistry from an early career scientist. The prize winner receives a monetary award and will complete a lecture tour within the UK. The winner is chosen by the awards committee of the Royal Society of Chemistry's organic division.

Award history
The award was established by the Royal Society of Chemistry in 1979 following Wilfred Hickinbottom's bequest. Hickinbottom was noted for supporting high standards in experimental chemistry. 
Part of the monetary award is the Briggs scholarship, which was funded following a bequest from Lady Alice Lilian Thorpe, William Briggs' daughter.

Previous recipients
The award was first granted in 1981 to Steven Ley and Jeremy Sanders.Subsequent recipients include:

See also
List of chemistry awards
Passage 16:
Francis Ambrière
Francis Ambrière (27 September 1907 – 1 July 1998) was a French author who was selected for the Prix Goncourt in 1940, for his book Les Grandes Vacances; the prize was awarded in 1946 because of World War II. He was born in Paris.

Biography
Francis Ambriere has been recognised for his novel Les Grandes Vacances, which chronicles the lives of French prisoners of war in 1940. He was the author of several Guides bleus for example in Paris in 1949, and then Greece in 1957, or on Italy published in 1960.

Works
Joachim du Bellay, Firmin-Didot et cie, 1930
Estaunié, John Charpentier, Francis Ambrière, Firmin-Didot et cie, 1932
Les grandes vacances, 1939-1945, Les Éditions de la nouvelle France, 1946, (reprint Éditions du Seuil, 1956)
The long holiday Translator Elaine P. Halperin, Publisher Ziff-Davis Pub. Co., 1948
Le solitaire de la Cervara, V. Attinger, 1947
The exiled, Staples Press, 1951
Le Maroc, Les Documents d'art, 1952
Théâtre et collectivité, Flammarion, 1953
Le Siecle des Valmore, Seuil, 1987 
Mademoiselle Mars et Marie Dorval: au théâtre et dans la vie, Seuil, 1992
Talma, ou l'histoire au théâtre, Madeleine Ambrière, Francis Ambrière, Éditions de Fallois, 2007, ISBN 978-2-87706-638-9