Passage 1:
Rufiji River
The Rufiji River lies entirely within Tanzania. It is also the largest and longest river in the country. The river is formed by the confluence of the Kilombero and Luwegu rivers. It is approximately 600 kilometres (370 mi) long, with its source in southwestern Tanzania and its mouth on the Indian Ocean opposite Mafia Island across the Mafia Channel, in Pwani Region. Its principal tributary is the Great Ruaha River. It is navigable for approximately 100 kilometres (62 mi).
The Rufiji river is approximately 200 kilometres (120 mi) south of Dar es Salaam. The river's delta contains the largest mangrove forest in eastern Africa.

History
A branch of ancient sea routes led down the East African coast called "Azania" by the Greeks and Romans in the 1st century CE as described in the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea (and, very probably, Chinese: 澤散 in the 3rd century by the Chinese), at least as far as the port known to the Romans as Rhapta, which was probably located in the delta of the Rufiji River in modern Tanzania.During the First World War, from October 1914 to July 1915, the river delta was the scene of a protracted naval operation. These were the attempts, and later achievement, by the Royal Navy to neutralize and destroy the German cruiser Konigsberg.

Basin
The catchment basin for the Rufiji River complex is 177,429 square kilometres (68,506 sq mi).

Hydroelectric Project
Tanzania president John Magufuli has approved the construction of a controversial new dam and power station on the river at Stiegler's Gorge. The power station is expected to provide 2,100 megawatts of electricity, more than triple Tanzania's existing installed hydropower capacity which is only 562 megawatts. Construction of the dam started on July 26, 2019, and it is expected be ready by 2022.
Passage 2:
Wolli Creek
Wolli Creek () is an urban watercourse of the Cooks River catchment located in the southern suburbs of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Wolli Creek rises south of Narwee, within Beverly Hills Park, Beverly Hills, and flows generally east northeast through Wolli Creek Valley and Wolli Creek Regional Park, joined by its major tributary, Bardwell Creek, before reaching its confluence with the Cooks River near Arncliffe and Tempe. The creek is a lined channel between Kingsgrove Road, Kingsgrove and Bexley Road, Bexley North where it then enters the Wolli Creek Valley. The sub-catchment area of the creek is 22 square kilometres (8.5 sq mi).

Nature conservation value
Adjacent to Wolli Creek, within the Wolli Creek Valley, is Wolli Creek Regional Park, a planned 50 hectares (120 acres) nature reserve of native bushland and public reserves that was announced by the NSW Government in 1998 as a result of sustained community campaigning for the area to be preserved and for the M5 East Freeway to go underground. Whilst some of the park has been formed and management handed over from local government authorities to the NSW National Parks & Wildlife Service, including the 8.9 hectares (22 acres) Girrahween Park and some privately held land that was compulsorily acquired, some areas of the originally planned park remain in the hands of government agencies including Sydney Water and Roads & Maritime Services.When complete, the planned nature reserve offers easy public transport access, family picnic areas, extensive views and bushland, rugged sandstone escarpments with walking tracks, a mixture of parkland, heathland, and woodland forest, and great birdwatching in close proximity to heavily developed residential and industrial landscape.

Wildlife
Bird observation
The diversity of habitat and strategic location of the Wolli Creek Valley are reflected in the wide range of bird species to be found adjacent to the creek. Approximately 175 species of birds have been recorded in the area between 1940 and 1999.

Fish
Several species of freshwater and saltwater fish can be found in the Wolli Creek in areas above and below the fish ladder. The fish ladder, or "rock-ramp fishway" was constructed to enable fish to bypass the weir at Henderson St, Turrella, allowing migration to other areas of the creek.

Coastal saltmarsh
The lower reaches – the tidal part – of Wolli Creek are home to a plant community known as saltmarsh, or coastal saltmarsh. The plant community includes various salinity-tolerant species such as Knobby Club-rush (Ficinia nodosa), Samphire (Sarcocornia quinqueflora), Sea Rush (Juncus kraussii), Seablite (Suaeda australis), Streaked Arrowgrass (Triglochin striata) and others. Coastal saltmarsh has been recognised as a carbon sink as well as a filter of nutrients maintaining water quality and is listed as an Endangered Ecological Community under the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995.

Gallery
See also
Wolli Creek Regional Park
Passage 3:
Darling Mills Creek
The Darling Mills Creek, an urban watercourse that is part of the Parramatta River catchment, is located in Greater Western Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
The Darling Mills Creek rises in the north-western suburbs of Sydney, west of Thompsons Corner, near the intersection of Castle Hill Road and Pennant Hills Road, within the suburb of West Pennant Hills. The headwaters lie on the watershed between the Hornsby Plateau and the Cumberland Plain. The creek flows generally west, then south, joined by its tributaries including the Bidjigal, Sawmill, Excelsior, Blue Gum, Bellbird, Bellamy Farm creeks and the dammed Hunts Creek downstream of Lake Parramatta, before reaching its confluence with the Toongabbie Creek to form the Parramatta River, in the suburb of North Parramatta, in land adjoining the northern boundary of the Cumberland Hospital. The course of the creek is approximately 10 kilometres (6.2 mi); and the creek passes through the Cumberland State Forest, the Darling Mills State Forest, Bidjigal Reserve, Excelsior Park, and many smaller reserves and parks.The Darling Mills Creek is transversed by the Cumberland Highway, the M2 Hills Motorway, and marks the boundary between Windsor Road and Church Street in North Parramatta.

History
The land adjacent to the Parramatta River and its tributaries, including the Darling Mills Creek, was occupied for many thousands of years by the Burramattagal clan of the Darug people, Toongagal, Wallumattagal, Wangal, and Wategora Aboriginal peoples. They used the river as an important source of food and a place for trade.The Darling Mills Creek takes its name from a watermill constructed a short distance from the confluence with Toongabbie Creek.
An earlier watermill was built by Samuel Marsden near the confluence. It milled flour from 1804 to 1818.
In 1825, the Darling Flour Mills were built for John Raine, upstream on the Windsor Road.
The Darling Mills site was taken over by Sydney Woollen Mills, which operated from 1870 to 1975. Sydney Woollen Mills originally used steam rather than water power. Part of the facade of the building remains on the site, which was occupied by Bunnings Warehouse's North Parramatta store in the early 21st century. There is a weir on the creek nearby that was constructed in the nineteenth century.

See also
Great North Walk
Rivers of New South Wales
Passage 4:
Still Fork
Still Fork is a tributary of the Sandy Creek, 16.1 miles (26 km) long, in eastern Ohio in the United States.  Via the Sandy Creek, Tuscarawas, Muskingum and Ohio Rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River, draining an area of 71.4 square miles (185 km2) in Carroll County, Ohio.  The source is at 1,180 feet (360 m) and the mouth is at 1,027 feet (313 m)., with an average gradient of only 0.2%.  From its source in eastern Carroll County the creek flows northwest through Fox, Washington, Augusta, and Brown Townships before reaching its mouth in Minerva, Ohio.  The Ohi-Rail Corporation (OHIC) and Arbor road are situated in the creeks valley over most of its length.
Near Augusta the creek flows through a rural Amish community, and downstream of Ohio State Route 9 is the unincorporated community of Pattersonville.  Mechanicstown and Norristown are the only other named communities in the watershed.

Variant names
According to the Geographic Names Information System, Still Fork has had no other known names.

Still Fork of Sandy Navigation Company
On February 15, 1837, the General Assembly of the state of Ohio enacted AN ACT to incorporate the Still Fork of Sandy Navigation Company.  This act authorized seven named Carroll county men to form the company to “…locate, make, construct, and forever maintain, a navigable canal or slack-water navigation, commencing on the land of William Croxton, where the New Lisbon-Carrollton road crosses said Still Fork of Sandy, and thence with the  general course of said stream, to intersect the Sandy and Beaver Canal, at the town of Pekin, in said county of Carroll…with the full power to emyloy [sic], as reservoirs or feeders, all streams or ponds over or near which such canal or slack-water navigation may pass.”  The company was capitalized at $65,000 in $25 shares to be sold to individuals only.   William Croxton’s land was in section 11 of Washington Township, a short distance up Friday Creek from the main branch of Still Fork, and present day county road 71 was the road between Carrollton and Lisbon.

Named tributaries
See also
List of rivers of Ohio
Passage 5:
Arado River
The Arado river is a river that originates in the surroundings of Curral do Camalhão, Gerês mountain range, north of the Teixeira valley and flows into the Fafião river after the Cascatas de Fecha be Barjas, parish of Cabril, municipality of Montalegre, district of Vila Real, in the north of Portugal.  It lies within the Peneda-Gerês National Park.
Passage 6:
Loimijoki
The river Loimijoki is a river in Finland and the longest tributary of the river Kokemäenjoki. The river originates at the lake Pyhäjärvi in Tammela and joins the river Kokemäenjoki in Huittinen. There is a 54-metre (177 ft) difference in elevation between the source and the mouth of the river, which is 114 kilometres (71 mi) long. The river drains a catchment area of 3,140 square kilometres (1,210 sq mi). The river has several dams at Forssa, Jokioinen and Loimaa.The Loimijoki river runs through the most fertile lands of Finland making its water  relatively muddy. The river was badly polluted by sewage of industry and population centers along the river, but since the 1980s the river has been starting to recover and currently the river sees also recreational use like fishing and water sports.
Passage 7:
Bolshaya Lyampa
The Bolshaya Lyampa (Russian: Большая Лямпа) is a river in Perm Krai, Russia, a right tributary of the Uls which in turn is a tributary of the Vishera. The river is 34 kilometres (21 mi) long. Its source is near the border with Sverdlovsk Oblast. It flows into the Uls 55 kilometres (34 mi) from the larger river's mouth. The Bolshaya Lyampa's main tributary is the Malaya Lyampa.
Passage 8:
Upper Orange Water Management Area
Upper Orange WMA, or Upper Orange Water Management Area (coded: 13), Includes the following major rivers: the Modder River, Riet River, Caledon River and Orange River, and covers the following Dams:

Armenia Dam Leeu River
Egmont Dam Witspruit
Gariep Dam Orange River
Groothoek Dam Kgabanyane River
Kalkfontein Dam Riet River
Katse Dam Malibamatso River
Knellpoort Dam Rietspruit
Krugersdrift Dam Modder River
Mohale Dam Senqunyane River
Rustfontein Dam Modder River
Tierpoort Dam Tierpoort River
Vanderkloof Dam Orange River
Welbedacht Dam Caledon River

Boundaries
Tertiary drainage regions C51, C52, D11 to D18, D21 to D24, D31, D32, D34 and D35.

See also
Water Management Areas
List of reservoirs and dams in South Africa
List of rivers of South Africa
Passage 9:
Orange River
The Orange River (from Afrikaans/Dutch: Oranjerivier) is a river in Southern Africa. It is the longest river in South Africa. With a total length of 2,432 km (1,511 mi), the Orange River Basin extends from Lesotho into South Africa and Namibia to the north. It rises in the Drakensberg mountains in Lesotho, flowing westwards through South Africa to the Atlantic Ocean. The river forms part of the international borders between South Africa and Lesotho and between South Africa and Namibia, as well as several provincial borders within South Africa. Except for Upington, it does not pass through any major cities. The Orange River plays an important role in the South African economy by providing water for irrigation and hydroelectric power. The river was named the Orange River in honour of the Dutch ruling family, the House of Orange, by the Dutch explorer Robert Jacob Gordon. Other names include simply the word for river, in Khoekhoegowab orthography written as !Garib, which is rendered in Afrikaans as Gariep River with the intrusion of a velar fricative in place of the alveolar click, Groote River (derived from Kai !Garib) or Senqu River (used in Lesotho), derived from ǂNū "Black". It is known in isiZulu as isAngqu.

Course
The Orange rises in the Drakensberg mountains along the border between South Africa and Lesotho, about 193 km (120 mi) west of the Indian Ocean and at an altitude of over 3,000 m (9,800 ft). The extremity of the Orange River inside Lesotho is known as the Senqu. Parts of the Senqu River freeze in winter because of the high altitude. This creates droughts downstream, which mainly affect goat and cattle production.

The Orange River then runs westward through South Africa, forming the south-western boundary of the Free State province. In this section, the river flows first into the Gariep Dam and later into the Vanderkloof Dam. From the border of Lesotho to below the Vanderkloof Dam, the river bed is deeply incised. Further downstream, the land is flatter, and the river is used extensively for irrigation.
At the western point of the Free State, southwest of Kimberley, the Orange meets with its main tributary, the Vaal River, which forms much of the northern border of the province. From here, the river flows further westward through the arid wilderness of the southern Kalahari region and Namaqualand in the Northern Cape province to meet with Namibia at 20°E longitude. From here, it flows westward for 550 km (340 mi), forming the international border between the province and Namibia's ǁKaras Region. On the border, the river passes the town of Vioolsdrif, the main border post between South Africa and Namibia.

In the last 800 km (500 mi) of its course, the Orange receives many intermittent streams, and several large wadis lead into it. In this section, the Namib Desert terminates on the north bank of the river, so under normal circumstances, the volume of water added by these tributaries is negligible. Here, the bed of the river is once again deeply incised. The Augrabies Falls are located on this section of the Orange, where the river descends 122 m (400 ft) in a course of 26 km (16 mi).
The Orange empties into the Atlantic Ocean between the small towns of Oranjemund (meaning "Orange mouth") in Namibia and Alexander Bay in South Africa, about equidistant between Walvis Bay and Cape Town. Some 33 km (21 mi) from its mouth, it is obstructed by rapids and sand bars and is generally not navigable for long stretches.
The river has a total length of 2,432 km (1,511 mi).

Catchment and rainfall
In the dry season, the volume of the water in the river is considerably reduced because of the rapid run-off and evaporation. At the source of the Orange, the rainfall is about 2,000 mm (79 in) per annum, but precipitation decreases as the river flows westward; at its mouth, the rainfall is less than 50 mm (2.0 in) per year. The factors that support evaporation, though, tend to increase in a westerly direction. In the wet season (summer), the Orange river becomes a brown colored torrent. The huge mass of sediment carried constitutes a long-term threat to engineering projects on the river.The total catchment of the Orange River (including the Vaal) extends over 973,000 km2 (376,000 sq mi), i.e. equivalent to about 77% of the land area of South Africa (1,221,037 km2 (471,445 sq mi)). Around 366,000 km2 (141,000 sq mi) (38%), however, are situated outside the country in Lesotho, Botswana, and Namibia.

Tributaries
Vaal River - 1,458 km (906 mi)
Caledon River - 642 km (399 mi)
Khubelu River - 144 km (89 mi)

Dams
Armenia Dam
Egmont Dam
Gariep Dam
Newberry Dam
Vanderkloof Dam
Welbedacht Dam

History
Etymology
Some of the earliest precolonial inhabitants called the river ǂNūǃarib, referring to its black colour, or sometimes just Kai !Arib ("Great River"), from which is derived the Afrikaans version Gariep, and translation "Groote Rivier". The early Dutch name for the river was just that translation, Groote Rivier, meaning "Great River". The river was named the Orange River by Colonel Robert Gordon, commander of the United East India Company (VOC) garrison at Cape Town, on a trip to the interior in 1779. Gordon named the river in honor of William V of Orange. A popular but incorrect belief is that the river was named after the supposedly orange color of its water, as opposed to the color of its tributary, the Vaal River, which name is derived from the name ǀHaiǃarib "pale river" (vaal being Afrikaans for pale or grey). Since the end of apartheid, the name "Gariep" has had greater favour in official correspondence in South Africa, although the name "Orange" has greater international recognition. In Lesotho, where the river rises, it is known as the Senqu River, derived from the original Khoemana name.

The Eastern Cape Geographical Names Committee has advertised its intention to consider a name change from the colonial name, for that portion of the river that forms the border between the Eastern Cape and the Free State, with suggestions being IGqili or Senqu. The advertisement placed in the Aliwal Weekblad newspaper states that the "present name is perceived to have a strong association with the history of colonial subjugation and has therefore no place under the current democratic dispensation."

The Grootslang
In South African folklore, the Orange River is often associated with the Grootslang, a mythical being resembling a giant serpent, which is often connected to the river's alluvial diamonds. The Grootslang is described as living in a gem-filled cave connected to the Orange River by a natural pipe through which the diamonds gradually enter the river. Other sites said to be lairs of the creature include the pool beneath the King George Cataract at Aughrabies Falls, which is also said to be a source of diamonds, and a large rock in the middle of the river itself. In this version of the legend, the Grootslang is also said to prey on cattle from the river's banks.

Economy
As the collection point for the majority of South Africa's water, the Orange River plays a major role in supporting agriculture, industry, and mining. To assist in this, two large water schemes have been created, the Orange River Project and the Lesotho Highlands Water Project. Historically, the river played an important role in the South African diamond rush, with the first diamonds in the country being discovered in alluvial deposits on the Orange. Today, several commercial diamond mines operate along the final stretch of the Orange River and around its mouth.
Because of the lack of dangerous animals and high water levels during summer, the river is used for recreational canoeing and rafting. Orange River rafting has become very popular with many companies using their camps along the river from which to operate. The most popular trips are four-day and six-day river trips that take place either along the gorge below the Augrabies Falls or along the Richtersveld area.

Orange River Project
The Orange River Project (ORP) was one of the largest and most imaginative projects of its kind in South Africa. It was constructed by Hendrik Verwoerd's government at the height of the apartheid era. The ORP was built to exploit the waters of the Orange River—which, without the Vaal River, represents some 14.1% of the total runoff in South Africa—and in the process, to satisfy an increasing demand for water. The main objectives of the project were:

to stabilise river flow,
the generation and transmission of hydroelectric power,
to provide a reliable water supply for users in the Orange River basin, and
to give a new lease on life to water-deficient areas in the Eastern Cape, such as the Great Fish and Sundays River valleys.The Gariep Dam near Colesberg is the main storage structure within the Orange River. From here, the water is supplied in two directions, westward along the Orange River (via hydroelectric power generators) to the Vanderkloof Dam and southward through the Orange-Fish Tunnel to the Eastern Cape.

Hydroelectricity
Eskom operates hydroelectric power stations at both the Gariep Dam and the Vanderkloof Dam. The hydroelectric power station at the Vanderkloof Dam was the first power-generation station in South Africa situated entirely underground. The towns Oviston and Oranjekrag were established to facilitate the construction and operation of the new infrastructure.

Irrigation
Irrigation in the vast area downstream of the Vanderkloof Dam, which has turned thousands of hectares of arid veld into highly productive agricultural land, was made possible by the construction of the Gariep and Vanderkloof Dams. Old established irrigation schemes such as those at Buchuberg, Upington, Kakamas, and Vioolsdrif have also benefitted because regulation of the flow is now possible. On the Namibian side of the river, Aussenkehr produces grapes with the help of water from the Orange.
In recent years, the wine-producing areas along the Orange River have grown in importance. Irrigation in the Eastern Cape has also received a tremendous boost, not only from the additional water being made available, but also owing to improvement in water quality. Without this improvement, the citrus farmers along the Lower Sundays River would almost certainly have continued to suffer losses of productivity.

Lesotho Highlands Water Project
The Lesotho Highlands Water Project was conceived to supplement the water supply in the Vaal River System. Water is delivered to South Africa by means of the delivery tunnel which passes under the Lesotho South Africa border at the Caledon River, and then under the Little Caledon River south of Clarens in the Free State, and discharges into the Ash River about 30 kilometres (19 mi) further to the north. The scheme became viable when water demands in Gauteng reached levels that could no longer be supported economically by alternative schemes such as the Tugela River-Vaal River pumped storage scheme, which used the Sterkfontein Dam, located near Harrismith in the Free State.

Alluvial diamonds
In 1867, the first diamond discovered in South Africa, the Eureka Diamond, was found near Hopetown on the Orange River. Two years later, a much larger diamond known as the Star of South Africa was found in the same area, causing a diamond rush. This was soon eclipsed by the diamond rush to mine diamonds directly from kimberlite at Kimberley in 1871, although alluvial diamonds continued to be found in the Orange. Today, several commercial diamond mines operate on the last stretch of the river, as well as the beaches around its mouth. Diamond mines also operate on the middle stretch of the river.

Rafting and canoeing
During the temperate months of March and April, given good rains and the sluices of the dams being open, a canoeist (or rafter) can easily travel 30 kilometres (19 mi) per day. The lower reaches of the river are most popular, because of the spectacular topography. Commercial tours are available, and these expeditions depart from the border town of Vioolsdrif.

Wildlife
The Orange River has no large animals. It lies outside the range of the Nile crocodile, and although hippopotami were once abundant, they were hunted to extermination in the 19th century. The Orange River has a relative paucity of species diversity. A 2011 survey of 13,762 fish found only 16 species of fish present.  Three of these, the common carp, the Mozambique tilapia, and the western mosquitofish are not indigenous.  Another exotic species, rainbow trout, is found in the river headwaters in Lesotho.
Seven species are endemic to the Vaal-Orange River system:
Rock-catfish (Austroglanis sclateri)
Maluti redfin or Maloti minnow (Pseudobarbus quathlambae)
Namaquab barb (Barbus hospes)
River sardine (Mesobola brevianalis)
Smallmouth yellowfish (Labeobarbus aeneus)
Largemouth yellowfish (Labeobarbus kimberlyensis)
Orange River Mudfish (Labeo capensis)

See also
List of rivers in South Africa
List of international border rivers
List of crossings of the Orange River
Passage 10:
Bardwell Creek
Bardwell Creek, an urban watercourse of the Cooks River catchment, is located in the southern suburbs of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Bardwell Creek rises in Georges River local government area, near Hurstville and flows in a north-easterly direction through the suburbs of Bexley, Bexley North, Bardwell Park, and Turrella in the Bayside local government area, where it makes its confluence with Wolli Creek, where it forms the border between the suburbs of Bardwell Park and Turrella. The upper reaches of the Creek are a piped drainage system, which becomes an open concrete channel at Croydon Road in the Bexley Golf Course. The total catchment area of Bardwell Creek is 6.36 square kilometres (2.46 sq mi).

See also
Bardwell Valley, New South Wales
Wolli Creek Regional Park
Passage 11:
Reconquista River
The Reconquista River (Spanish, Río Reconquista) is a small river in the province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Together with the Riachuelo, it is one of the most contaminated watercourses in the country.
The Reconquista is part of the Río de la Plata basin. It originates in Marcos Paz, Buenos Aires Province, and flows across 18 municipalities, emptying into the Luján River. Its drainage basin has an area of 1,670 square kilometres (640 sq mi) and is populated by around 4 million people.
The river carries about 33 percent of the total pollution drained by the  estuary of the Río de la Plata, taking into account both industrial and domestic waste. There are about 12,000 industries in its basin, 700 of which dump their waste into the watercourse without controls.
Studies have found nitrites, nitrates, ester-phenols, PCB, and heavy metals. These pollutants can cause hepatitis, skin reactions, gastrointestinal problems and eye infections.

History
During the 1980s, there was a wave of protests by local residents denouncing the lack of state involvement. In 1984, the national Senate addressed the issue for the first time.
In 1995, the national government obtained a loan from the Inter-American Development Bank for the cleaning and control of the Reconquista. The construction started in 1996, with a $400 million budget assigned to an autonomous entity called UniRec.
In 2001 they were officially finished, and advertised as such, though only the flood prevention works were built. Four projected waste treatment plants and other  sanitation infrastructure were not. There was also no minimization or monitoring of industrial waste dumped into the course.
According to Martín Nunziata, member of a Río de la Plata environmental group, this failure to comply with the plan was the result of political corruption, and also due to the pressure exerted by the polluting industries on the workers: "The companies warn [them] that, if the environmental laws are applied, they will have to close."
Nunziata also alluded to the cellulose plant conflict between Argentina and Uruguay: "If, starting today, it was decided to demand from the industries of the Reconquista River the same things we want Uruguay to demand from the Fray Bentos cellulose plants, out of the 12,000 companies installed, at least 10,000 would have to close down."

Destroyed historic bridge
The 1773 Marquez Bridge over the Reconquista River was declared a National Historic Monument of Argentina, but in 1997, the Autopistas del Oeste demolished it.

See also
List of rivers of Argentina
List of destroyed heritage § Argentina
List of National Historic Monuments of Argentina
Passage 12:
Coxs Creek (Belfield, New South Wales)
Coxs Creek, a watercourse of the Cooks River catchment, is located in the Inner West of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Coxs Creek rises northeast of Punchbowl railway station and flows generally north northeast, before reaching its confluence with the Cooks River, at Strathfield South. Over time the creek has been extensively modified and is now largely a storm drain that flows about 3 kilometres (1.9 mi). Prior to development of the area the creek drained paperbark swamps that were formerly near the junction of Roberts Road and Juno Parade. Over time the creek has been extensively modified and rerouted. As with most drainage channels in the area it has been lined along much of its length. Coxs Creek drains a total catchment of 8.8 square kilometres (3.4 sq mi).The creek begins as a stormwater drain, then runs in the open through the Coxs Creek Wetland, a 1.84 hectares (4.5 acres) reserve containing significant remnant bushland including some Cooks River Castlereagh Ironbark Forest habitat. Including tree specimens of mugga ironbark (Eucalyptus sideroxylon), narrow-leaved ironbark (E. crebra), broad-leaved ironbark (E. fibrosa), and tallowwood (E. microcorys). The forest habitat is noted as an endangered ecological community. Acacia pubescens (Downy Wattle) is a vulnerable flora species present as is the locally endangered Tadgell's Bluebell (Wahlenbergia multicaulis). The endangered Green and Golden Bell Frog (Litoria aurea) has been recorded and frog ponds constructed as part of the creek. The frog has not been seen in the creek since 1995, though they are still present in the nearby constructed wetlands at the Juno Parade Brick Pit.
In 2005 Sydney Ports Corporation proposed works including fauna corridors and "frog ramps" to encourage their return. Along much of its length the creek is a combination of covered channel and an uncovered concrete lined trench. As the creek passes through the reserve it is open and the 2010 management plan calls for restoration of this part of the creek and the adjacent riparian zone.
Passage 13:
Toongabbie Creek
Toongabbie Creek, an urban watercourse that is part of the Parramatta River catchment, is located in Greater Western Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Toongabbie Creek rises in the north-western suburbs of Sydney, west of the Old Northern Road, within the suburb of Castle Hill; with its headwaters forming the watershed boundary between the Hornsby Plateau and the Cumberland Plain. The creek flows generally south-west, then south by east, then south by west, then east before reaching its confluence with the Darling Mills Creek to form the Parramatta River, in the suburb of North Parramatta, in land adjoining the northern boundary of the Cumberland Hospital. The course of the creek is approximately 9 kilometres (5.6 mi).Although only a small portion of Toongabbie Creek is contained within the Blacktown local government area, much of its sub-catchment, including the Blacktown and Lalor creeks and their associated tributaries are within the City of Blacktown. In 2005, the Toongabbie Creek catchment area was rated as the highest polluting catchment out of the twenty-two catchments in Blacktown. Much of the creek is channeled in a concrete drain; and domestic garbage is often scattered along the creek's banks. Prior to April 2015, the creek was dammed at many places by fallen trees, and the rapids at Mons Road were not visible. The stagnant water in the dams was bubbly. After the rain in April 2015, which caused a flood that damaged infrastructure at Parramatta,  most of the dead trees were cleaned away and the rocks at Mons Road are now exposed.
Toongabbie Creek is transversed by the Cumberland Highway; the Westlink M7 and M2 Hills Motorway at their interchange; and the Old Windsor Road.
The land adjacent to the Parramatta River and its tributaries, including the Toongabbie Creek, was occupied for many thousands of years by the Burramattagal, Toongagal, Wallumattagal, Wangal, and Wategora Aboriginal peoples. They used the river as an important source of food and a place for trade.

See also
Rivers of New South Wales
Passage 14:
Cabramatta Creek
Cabramatta Creek, an urban watercourse of the Georges River catchment, is located in the South Western Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Cabramatta Creek rises in the rural/residential suburb of Denham Court, east south-east of Leppington, within the Liverpool local government area. From here the creek flows in a northerly direction under Camden Valley Way towards Hoxton Park, and its junction with Hinchinbrook Creek. Substantial residential development has occurred in these areas, particularly to the west of Cowpasture Road. A number of detention basins have also been constructed in conjunction with the development.
The Ingham's poultry farm also occupies a significant landholding in the area. Below Hoxton Park Road, Cabramatta Creek starts to flow in an easterly direction the Fairfield local government area, towards its confluence with the Georges River, to the east of Warwick Farm. A more prominent creek "corridor", up to 200 metres (660 ft) wide, becomes more evident throughout the lower catchment. This primarily consists of public open space, playing fields and golf courses. The Elouera Nature Reserve, which is an important pocket of native bushland, also forms part of this corridor.
Cabramatta Creek flows through established residential suburbs, including Miller, Cartwright, Sadlier, Ashcroft, Liverpool, Mount Pritchard and Warwick Farm. Major transport routes that cross the catchment includes Hoxton Park Road, Elizabeth Drive, Orange Grove Road (the Cumberland Highway), the Hume Highway and the Main Southern railway line. The catchment area of the creek is approximately 74 square kilometres (29 sq mi), and within the catchment area are the Cabramatta Creek, Hinchinbrook Creek, Maxwells Creek, and Brickmakers Creek.The area around the creek was home to the Darug Aboriginal people. European settlement began on the site in the 1790s when they found good quality soil.
In the area surrounding Cabramatta Creek is a large flying fox population; located behind the Sunnybrook Motel and called the Cabrammatta Creek Flying Fox Reserve.A concrete beam road bridge that carries the Hume Highway over Cabramatta Creek, constructed in 1951 and commonly known as Ireland's Bridge, is listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register.
Passage 15:
Little River (Wingecarribee)
The Little River, a watercourse that is part of the Hawkesbury-Nepean catchment, is located in the Southern Highlands region of New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
The Little River rises south southeast of the locality of Wills Hill, near Robertson, and flows generally north before reaching its confluence with the Dudewaugh Creek, a tributary of the Burke River within the Upper Nepean River catchment. The course of the river is approximately 8 kilometres (5.0 mi).

See also
List of rivers of New South Wales (L–Z)
List of rivers of Australia
Rivers of New South Wales
Passage 16:
Cup and Saucer Creek
Cup and Saucer Creek, an urban watercourse of the Cooks River catchment, is located in the Canterbury-Bankstown region of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Cup and Saucer Creek rises in Canterbury local government area, near Wiley Park railway station and flows in an east north-easterly direction through the suburbs of Roselands, Kingsgrove and Clemton Park, where it makes its confluence with the Cooks River, within the suburb of Earlwood. The upper reaches of the creek are a piped drainage system, which becomes part drain and part creek in the lower reaches. The Cup and Saucer Creek Catchment Management Study by the Water Board in 1992 showed extensive toxic organics in the form of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and organochlorines.The creek is so named because of sandstone formations in the former bed of the creek.A concrete culvert over Bexley Road constructed in 1920 is listed on the NSW State Heritage Register.
Passage 17:
Lansdowne River
Lansdowne River, a watercourse of the Manning River catchment, is located in the Mid North Coast district of New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Lansdowne River rises below Mount Gibraltar in the Gibraltar Range, north northwest of Upper Lansdowne, and flows generally southeast before reaching its confluence with the Northern Arm of the Manning River, near Coopernook. The river descends 740 metres (2,430 ft) over its 51 kilometres (32 mi) course.The Pacific Highway crosses the Lansdowne River south-east of Coopernook.

See also
Rivers of New South Wales
List of rivers of New South Wales (L–Z)
List of rivers of Australia
Passage 18:
Doghole River
The Doghole River is a river in the Unorganized Part of Kenora District in Northwestern Ontario, Canada. The river is part of the James Bay drainage basin. It flows from Doghole Lake, where the outlet is part of the Mishkeegogamang First Nation Osnaburgh Indian Reserve No. 63B, to the northeast shore of Lake St. Joseph; oddly, the mouth is not on Doghole Bay, adjacent to the east. Lake St. Joseph is the source of the Albany River, which flows to James Bay.
Passage 19:
Staaten River
The Staaten River is a river in northern Queensland, Australia, rising in the Great Dividing Range and flowing northwest into the Gulf of Carpentaria.

Location and features
The river rises of the western slopes of the Great Dividing Range approximately 200 kilometres (120 mi) west of Cairns. The river flows generally northwest to the Staaten River National Park and then west, joined by eleven minor tributaries before reaching its mouth and emptying into the Gulf of Carpentaria. From source to mouth the river's waters overflow into intertwining lagoons that create an enormous wetland sanctuary for a vast array of unique wildlife and plants. When the rains of the wet season cease, the Staaten River retreats from the floodplains and wetlands and becomes little more than a thread trickling down wide sand banks and a string of important lagoon refuges. The river descends 220 metres (720 ft) over its 383-kilometre (238 mi) course.There is very little development in the catchment, with grazing being the most common activity, and there are no major water storage facilities on the river. The river is navigable for 17 kilometres (11 mi) upstream until sand and rock bars are found. Dinah Island, located about 15 kilometres (9 mi) inland, is a small cattle property and at times provides short term accommodation for fishing enthusiasts.

Conservation and cultural values
The Staaten River catchment is one of Australia's last great wilderness areas. With little agricultural development, scant road access, and thriving forests and wildlife, it is a truly wild river system. The river straddles both the Cape York Peninsula and Gulf Country regions. Characterised by the replenishing floods of the wet season and an extensive network of lagoon refuges during the dry season, the river system is known for its excellent saratoga and barramundi fishing and saltwater crocodiles, one of Australia's best known animals.
The wet season is characterized by a large congregation of waterbirds from all over Australia and as far away as China and Russia.  This birds live in the abundant waters of places like the huge Inkerman-Gilbrath Wetland, near the mouth of the catchment. The coastal margin of the Staaten River forms part of the Southeast Karumba Plan wetland aggregation, which is the best developed coastal wetland system in Queensland and provides critical habitat and breeding grounds for birds, fish, and other native wildlife. The Staaten River National Park in this area, covering around 467,000 hectares (1,150,000 acres), is one of Australia's largest and most remote national parks.
The Staaten Wild River Area covers about 25,700 square kilometres (9,900 sq mi) at the western base of Cape York Peninsula. The area contains the catchments of the Staaten River, Vanrook Creek, and ten major tributaries.  The purpose of the wild river declaration is to "manage future development activity in the wild river area to ensure the wild river natural values are preserved".

Threats
The Staaten River is remote and currently there is little demand for water extraction in this area. The major present threat in this area is cattle grazing.  If not managed sustainably, cattle can cause major soil erosion, trample vegetation, and pollute river systems. There are also minor infestations of the invasive weeds such as rubber-vine in the Staaten River. Wild River protection, as well as the Indigenous Wild River Ranger program, will help address these impacts.

Indigenous heritage
The traditional owners of the upper catchment area are the Kunjen people.The Agwamin, Kutjar, Koknar, Kunjen and Kokoberrin people are the traditional owners of the Staaten River catchment area and maintain strong cultural and spiritual connections with the land and rivers. The traditional ecological knowledge and health of these communities is in turn critical to the ongoing health of this wild river system.

Etymology
The river was first named by Dutch sea explorer Jan Carstensz in 1623. It is named after the States General, the parliament of the Netherlands.

See also

List of rivers of Australia § Queensland
Passage 20:
Yukon River
The Yukon River is a major watercourse of northwestern North America. From its source in British Columbia, Canada, it flows through Canada's territory of Yukon (itself named after the river). The lower half of the river continues westward through the U.S. state of Alaska. The river is 3,190 kilometres (1,980 mi) long and empties into the Bering Sea at the Yukon–Kuskokwim Delta. The average flow is 6,400–7,000 m3/s (230,000–250,000 cu ft/s). The total drainage area is 833,000 km2 (321,500 sq mi), of which 323,800 km2 (125,000 sq mi) lies in Canada. The total area is more than 25% larger than Texas or Alberta.
The longest river in Alaska and Yukon, it was one of the principal means of transportation during the 1896–1903 Klondike Gold Rush. A portion of the river in Yukon—"The Thirty Mile" section, from Lake Laberge to the Teslin River—is a national heritage river and a unit of Klondike Gold Rush International Historical Park. Paddle-wheel riverboats continued to ply the river until the 1950s, when the Klondike Highway was completed. After the purchase of Alaska by the United States in 1867, the Alaska Commercial Company acquired the assets of the Russian-American Company and constructed several posts at various locations on the Yukon River.
The Yukon River has a recent history of pollution from military installations, dumps, wastewater, and other sources. However, the Environmental Protection Agency does not list the Yukon River among its impaired watersheds, and water-quality data from the U.S. Geological Survey shows relatively good levels of turbidity, metals, and dissolved oxygen.  The Yukon and Mackenzie rivers have much higher suspended sediment concentrations than the great Siberian Arctic rivers.The Yukon River Inter-Tribal Watershed Council, a cooperative effort of 70 First Nations and tribes in Alaska and Canada, has the goal of making the river and its tributaries safe to drink from again by supplementing and scrutinizing government data.

Name
The name Yukon, or ųųg han, is a contraction of the words in the Gwich'in phrase chųų gąįį han, which means white water river and refers to "the pale colour" of glacial runoff in the Yukon River.  The contraction is Ųųg Han, if the /ųų/ remains nasalized, or Yuk Han, if there is no vowel nasalization.  In the 1840s, different tribes had different opinions as to the literal meaning of Yukon.  In 1843, the Holikachuks had told the Russian-American Company that their name for the river was Yukkhana and that this name meant big river.  However, Yukkhana does not literally correspond to a Holikachuk phrase that means big river.  Then, two years later, the Gwich'ins told the Hudson's Bay Company that their name for the river was Yukon and that the name meant white water river.  White water river in fact corresponds to Gwich'in words that can be shortened to form Yukon.  Because the Holikachuks had been trading regularly with both the Gwich’ins and the Yup'iks, the Holikachuks were in a position to borrow the Gwich'in contraction and to conflate its meaning with the meaning of Kuig-pak [River-big], which is the Yup'ik name for the same river.  For that reason, the documentary evidence suggests that the Holikachuks had borrowed the contraction Ųųg Han [White Water River] from Gwich'in, and erroneously assumed that this contraction had the same literal meaning as the corresponding Yup'ik name Kuig-pak [River-big].
The Lewes River is the former name of the upper course of the Yukon, from Marsh Lake to the confluence of the Pelly River at Fort Selkirk.

Course
The generally accepted source of the Yukon River is the Llewellyn Glacier at the southern end of Atlin Lake in British Columbia. Others suggest that the source is Lake Lindeman at the northern end of the Chilkoot Trail. Either way, Atlin Lake flows into Tagish Lake (via the Atlin River), as eventually does Lake Lindeman after flowing into Bennett Lake. Tagish Lake then flows into Marsh Lake (via the Tagish River). The Yukon River proper starts at the northern end of Marsh Lake, just south of Whitehorse. Some argue that the source of the Yukon River should really be Teslin Lake and the Teslin River, which has a larger flow when it reaches the Yukon at Hootalinqua. The upper end of the Yukon River was originally known as the Lewes River until it was established that it actually was the Yukon. North of Whitehorse, the Yukon River widens into Lake Laberge, made famous by Robert W. Service's "The Cremation of Sam McGee". Other large lakes that are part of the Yukon River system include Kusawa Lake (into the Takhini River) and Kluane Lake (into the Kluane and then White River).
The river passes through the communities of Whitehorse, Carmacks, (just before the Five Finger Rapids) and Dawson City in Yukon, and crossing Alaska into Eagle, Circle, Fort Yukon, Stevens Village, Rampart, Tanana, Ruby, Galena, Nulato, Grayling, Holy Cross, Russian Mission, Marshall, Pilot Station, St. Marys (which is accessible from the Yukon at Pitkas Point), and Mountain Village. After Mountain Village, the main Yukon channel frays into many channels, sprawling across the delta. There are a number of communities after the "head of passes," as the channel division is called locally: Nunum Iqua, Alakanuk, Emmonak, and Kotlik. Of those delta communities, Emmonak is the largest with roughly 760 people in the 2000 census. Emmonak's gravel airstrip is the regional hub for flights.

Hazards
Navigational obstacles on the Yukon River are the Five Finger Rapids and Rink Rapids downstream from Carmacks.

Bridges
Despite its length, there are only four vehicle-carrying bridges across the river, listed from upstream to downstream:

The Lewes Bridge, north of Marsh Lake, Yukon, on the Alaska Highway;
The Robert Campbell Bridge, which connects the Whitehorse suburb of Riverdale to the downtown area;
The Yukon River Bridge in Carmacks, Yukon, on the Klondike Highway; and
The Yukon River Bridge, north of Fairbanks, Alaska on the Dalton Highway.A car ferry crosses the river at Dawson City in the summer; it is replaced by an ice bridge over the frozen river during the winter. Plans to build a permanent bridge were announced in March 2004, although they are currently on hold because bids came in much higher than budgeted.
There are also two pedestrian-only bridges in Whitehorse, as well as a dam across the river and a hydroelectric generating station. The construction of the dam flooded the White Horse Rapids, which gave the city its name, and created Schwatka Lake.
Transportation is also performed along the river in summer by barge, enabling heavy goods, oil, and vehicles to be transported to communities along the Yukon, Tanana, Innoko, and Koyukuk rivers. This service is performed by Ruby Marine and reaches Tanana on the Yukon River and Nenana on the Tanana River.

Geography and ecology
Some of the upper slopes of this watershed (e.g. Nulato Hills) are forested by Black Spruce. This locale near the Seward Peninsula represents the near westernmost limit of the Black Spruce, Picea mariana, one of the most widespread conifers in northern North America.
The river flows into several parklands and refuges including:

Innoko National Wildlife Refuge
Nowitna National Wildlife Refuge
Yukon-Charley Rivers National Preserve
Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge
Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge

Discharge
Yukon at Pilot Station (121 miles upstream of mouth) minimum, average and maximum discharge

Fisheries
The Yukon River is home to one of the longest salmon runs in the world. Each year Chinook, coho, and chum salmon return to their terminal streams in Alaska, the Yukon Territory, and British Columbia. The Chinook have the longest journey, with an estimated 35–50% bound for Canada. As salmon do not eat during their spawning migration, Yukon River salmon must have great reserves of fat and energy to fuel their thousands-mile-long journey. As a result, Yukon River salmon are noted for their especially rich and oily meat.
The villages along the Yukon have historically relied on and continue to rely on salmon for their cultural, subsistence, and commercial needs. Salmon are traditionally dried, smoked, and frozen for both human and sled dog consumption. Common methods of fishing on the Yukon include set gillnets, drift nets, dip nets, and fish wheels. The preference of certain gear is largely dependent on the river's varied characteristics in different areas. Some parts of the river do not have eddies to make set-nets successful, whereas in other places the tributaries are small enough to make drifting impractical.
Over the last 20 years salmon recruitment, the number of returning adults, has taken several shocks. The late 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s have been marked by radically reduced runs for various salmon species. The United States Department of Commerce issued a Federal Disaster Declaration for the 2008 and 2009 Commercial Chinook Yukon River fisheries, calling for the complete closure of commercial fishing along with restrictions on subsistence fishing. The root cause of these poor returns remains debated, with questions about the effects of climate change on ocean food-supply & disease prevalence in returning adults, the methods of fishing used on the river, and the effects of the Bering Sea Pollock trawl fleet on food supply and salmon bycatch. In 2010, the Alaska Department of Fish & Game's Board of Fisheries issued the first-ever restriction for net mesh size on the Yukon, reducing it to 7.5 inches (190 mm).Various organizations are involved to protect healthy salmon runs into the future. The Yukon River Drainage Fisheries Association was formed in 1990 by a consensus of fishers representing the entire drainage in response to recent disaster years. Its organizational goals include giving voice to the village fishers that have traditionally managed these resources, enabling communication between fishers and fishery managers, and helping to preserve the ecological integrity of salmon runs and local cultures' Traditional Ecological KnowledgeIn March 2001, the U.S. & Canadian governments passed the Yukon River Salmon Agreement to better manage an internationally shared resource and ensure that more Canadian-originated salmon return across the border. The agreement is implemented through the Yukon River Panel, an international body of 12 members, equal-parts American and Canadian, that advises managers of Yukon River fisheries concerning restoration, conservation, and coordinated management.Tribal organizations such as the Association of Village Council Presidents (AVCP), Council of Athabascan Tribal Governments (CATG), and Tanana Chiefs Conference (TCC) work to sustain Yukon River salmon to promote healthy people, cultures, and communities.

Tributaries
Yukon Territory
Takhini River
Big Salmon River
Little Salmon River (Yukon)
Nordenskiold River
Teslin River
Pelly River
Macmillan River
Stewart River
Nadaleen River
Lansing River
Hess River
Mayo River
McQuesten River
White River
Donjek River
Kluane River
Nisling River
Beaver Creek
Sixtymile River
Indian River
Klondike River
Fortymile River

Alaska
Tatonduk River
Seventymile River
Nation River
Kandik River
Charley River
Porcupine River
(tributaries in the Yukon)Miner tributaries
Fishing Branch
Bell River
Eagle River
Rock River (Yukon)
Driftwood River (Yukon)
Old Crow River
Bluefish River(tributaries in Alaska)Coleen River
Black River
Wood River
Bear Mountain Creek
Mountain Creek
Chandalar Creek
Sheenjek River
Sheenjek River East Fork
Koness River
Eskimo Creek
Christian River
Chandalar River
East Fork Chandalar River
Junjik River
Wind River
Middle Fork Chandalar River
North Fork Chandalar River
West Fork Chandalar River
Marten Creek
Birch Creek
Hadweenzic River
Beaver Creek
Hodzana River
Dall River
Ray River
Big Salt River
Hess Creek
Garnet Creek
Fish Creek
Texas Creek
Coal Creek
Tanana River
Nabesna River
Chisana River
Tetlin River
Goodpaster River
Delta River
Salcha River
Chena River
Wood River
Nenana River
Tolovana River
Kantishna River
NC Creek
Tozitna River
Bluebell Creek
Dagislakhna Creek
Banddana Creek
Blind River
Bering Creek
Nowitna River
Sulatna River
Big Creek
Beaver Creek
Glacier Creek
Melozitna River
Black Sand Creek
Little Melozitna River
Ruby Slough
Yuki River
East Fork Yuki River
Kala Creek
Kelly Creek
Galena Creek
Bishop Creek
Koyukuk River
Workyard Creek
Gisasa River
Kateel River
Dulbi River
Huslia River
Nulitna River
Tom Cook Slough
Billy Hawk Creek
Cutoff Slough
Hogatza River
Clear Creek
Batza River
Matthews Slough
Little Indian River
Indian River
Calamity Creek
Pocahontas Creek
Kanuti River
Discovery Creek
Alatna River
Siruk Creek
South Fork Koyokouk River
Jim River
Jane Creek
John River
North Fork Koyukuk River
Nulato River
Khotol River
Anvik River
Bonasila River
Stuyahok River
Innoko River
Paimiut Slough
Reindeer River
Iditarod River
Yetna River
First Chance Creek
Mud River
Dishna River
Coffee Creek
Tolstoi Creek
Madison Creek
Mastodon Creek
Hurst Creek
Taft Creek
Finland Creek
Scandinavian Creek
North Fork Innoko River
Tango Creek
West Fork North Fork Innoko River
Colorado Creek
Kako Creek
Engineer Creek
Reindeer River
Atchuelinguk River
Andreafsky River
Kashunuk River (distributary)

List of major tributaries
The main river and tributaries are (sorted in order from the mouth heading upstream):

In media
The Yukon River features as the setting for the 2015 National Geographic Channel series Yukon River Run.
The industrial metal band Lindemann wrote a song named "Yukon" on their first album Skills in Pills.

See also
Alaska salmon fishery
List of longest rivers of Canada
List of longest rivers of the United States (by main stem)
List of rivers of Alaska
List of Yukon rivers
Steamboats of the Yukon River