Passage 1:
Graeme Goodall
Graeme Goodall (1932 – 3 December 2014) was an Australian recording engineer and record label owner who was a key figure in the early days of Jamaica's recording industry, constructing several of the Island's studios, co-founding Island Records, and operating other labels in the United Kingdom releasing Jamaican music.

Career
Born in 1932, Graeme Goodall grew up in Caulfield, Victoria, and studied at Caulfield North Central School and Scotch College. In the early 1950s he worked at Melbourne radio station 3UZ briefly before studying television in London and training as an engineer with the International Broadcasting Company.He became involved in the independent record industry and travelled to Jamaica in 1954 to set up the first FM radio network in Kingston — Radio Jamaica Rediffusion. He went on to work as chief engineer of the Jamaica Broadcasting Corporation.He began recording local musicians at the Radio Jamaica studios, and went on to build Federal Records, Jamaica's first recording studio (which was rebuilt in 1961 and later became Tuff Gong Recording Studio) with local entrepreneur Ken Khouri to the rear of Khouri's furniture store on King Street. Goodall worked as a recording engineer for Ken Khouri on some of the earliest Jamaican studio recordings. The studio not only provided the Island's first recording facility but also produced acetate discs, allowing sound system operators to record tracks and have them available to play within hours.Known to the local musicians as "Mr. Goody", Goddall went on to assist with the construction of several studios, including Dynamic Sound, Studio One and later Channel One Studios, and carry out engineering work for producers such as Clement "Coxsone" Dodd, Byron Lee, and Leslie Kong, engineering recordings by Laurel Aitken ("Boogie in My Bones") Millie ("My Boy Lollipop"), The Wailers, Prince Buster, The Skatalites, Derrick Morgan, and Desmond Dekker, among many others. He also trained Jamaican engineers such as Sylvan Morris and Lynford Anderson.In 1959 he co-founded Island Records with Chris Blackwell and Kong, but his relationship with Blackwell broke down and he went on to start his own labels after relocating to the UK in 1965, the most successful of which were Doctor Bird and Pyramid. After Dekker's "Poor Me, Israelites" proved popular in clubs but failed to get much airplay due to its production, Goodall got Kong to send him the master tapes; he remixed it and released it in the UK in 1969 on Pyramid as "Israelites", the single going on to top the UK Singles Chart and sell over two million copies. He also ran West Indies Records and set up the Trojan Records subsidiary Attack Records.Goodall married his Jamaican wife Fay in 1961 and in the early 1970s they moved to the US. Goodall later worked as Southern Regional Manager for Sony Pro Audio.Graeme Goodall died at his home in Atlanta, Georgia on 3 December 2014 from natural causes, aged 82. He was survived by his wife, two children, and four grandchildren.
Passage 2:
My Moment (Rebecca Black song)
"My Moment" is a song by American recording artist Rebecca Black. It is a self-empowerment follow-up song to her first single "Friday", addressed to the "haters" who criticized her previous release. The song was written and produced by Brandon "Blue" Hamilton and Quinton Tolbert, and co-produced by Charlton Pettus. It was released on the iTunes Store under the label RB Records as Black's second single on July 19, 2011. RB Records was established by Black herself, after disputes over ownership and distribution of her previous single, "Friday".
"My Moment" received mostly negative reviews from music critics. Though reviewers considered it an improvement from Black's previous single, they also found it less enjoyable. Unlike its predecessor, the song failed to chart on international music markets. The song's music video, which premiered a day before the single was released, portrays Black's "sudden rise to fame" and her "moments". The video garnered more than a million views within 24 hours of its release.

Background
Rebecca Black became famous in early 2011 for her song "Friday" and its viral music video, whose reception was heavily negative from commentators and YouTube users. Black said that, after "Friday", she needed "to find the perfect song that kind of tells off the haters a little bit but still shows that [she is] a serious artist." "My Moment" was written and produced by Brandon "Blue" Hamilton and Quinton Tolbert, and co-produced by Charlton Pettus. The single release was first announced on July 11, 2011. Two days later, Black unveiled the single's artwork through her Twitter account. On July 18, the accompanying music video was uploaded on Black's YouTube channel, while the single was released digitally on the iTunes Store on July 19.

Composition
"My Moment" is a self-empowerment song that lasts for three minutes and twenty-five seconds. According to Jocelyn Vena of MTV, the song "is addressing all those haters who didn't necessarily get her last viral smash, "Friday". Black starts singing the lyrics "Weren't you the one who said that I would be nothing? / Well, I'm about to prove you wrong / I'm not the only one who believes in something / My one wish is about to come true." As the song goes, Black addresses her negative reception even more, singing, "Haters, said I'll see you later/Can't talk to you right now/I'm getting my paper". "My Moment" features a simple mid-tempo melody with a prominent uses of garish keyboards on its background. Uses of pitch-correcting software Auto-Tune on Black's vocals were also noticed.

Critical reception
Tanner Stransky of Entertainment Weekly said that, unlike Black's previous song, "My Moment" was not so bad it's good, and Michelle Woo of OC Weekly described "My Moment" as "a lot less terrible" than "Friday", making it "less awesome". Many compared the production to that of "Friday". Mike Hale of The New York Times criticized Black's vocals for being "as heavily processed" as they were previously, but said that the tuning had "been done much more artfully", meaning Black sounded "more like a human being." A reviewer for The Huffington Post said, "if you were hoping for "Friday" part two, this certainly isn't it. Gone is the weird nasal, overly auto-tuned voice that made 'Friday' sound like she was saying 'fried egg.'" Black herself was called "sweet but very self empowered" by Stransky, and Adrian Chen of Gawker called the track "a 'look-at-me-now' love letter" to all [Black's] haters". Jason Lipshutz of Billboard saw the song in a similar light; for him, Black "does offer a bit of vitriol to those who wrote her off as a one-hit Internet wonder."The song was compared to Radio Disney songs and the music of Justin Bieber. While Chen called it "inoffensive" and "mildly catchy", other reviewers were less sympathetic. Jenni Dunning, of the Toronto Star, said that while "you might find it possible to listen to the whole song without flinching as much at her nasally voice [...] that doesn’t make it good." Daniel Kreps, of Yahoo! Music, was even more critical, saying that nobody could like "My Moment", not even ironically.

Music video
The music video, directed by Morgan Lawley, was released through Black's YouTube channel on July 18, 2011, and a behind-the-scenes video was uploaded the day after. The video opens with Black in a studio, finishing the song recording with a studio band: guitarist Kellen McGee, bassist Jeremy Steel, and keyboardist Jourdan Steel. The video intercuts scenes of the studio with footage of Black making TV appearances, walking on red carpets, driving around Hollywood and greeting fans. Next, the singer is seen on a makeup chair and rehearsing several dance steps. She then starts the full choreography with So You Think You Can Dance finalists Robert Roldan and Kent Boyd. So You Think You Can Dance's Allison Holker and Lauren Gottlieb also appear in the dance sections of the video. The video ends with Black at the premiere of My Moment, a fictional film about her.Black has stated that her favorite part of making the video was the dancing; she used to be a dancer and is a regular watcher of So You Think You Can Dance. In less than twenty-four hours after its release, the video had already attracted one million views on YouTube. Nicole James of MTV said that, in the music video, Black is "definitely a little sassier than the "Friday" singer we once knew", while Mike Hale of The New York Times noted that "a lot of people will rip “My Moment” for its relentless self-celebration."

Credits and personnel
Credits for "My Moment" adapted from MTV and CNN.
Rebecca Black – lead vocals, backing vocals
Brandon "Blue" Hamilton – songwriting, production
Quinton Tolbert – songwriting, production
Charlton Pettus – production
Passage 3:
Voices of Wonder
Voices of Wonder a.k.a. Voice of Wonder Records was one of the most important rock record labels in Oslo, Norway in the early 1990s. The label was fronted by a small and intimate record store on Olaf Ryes plass, which in addition to the labels own artists specialized in the English Earache Records and the American Sub Pop labels.
In the second half of the 1990s the store changed focus, from metal and grindcore to dance and electronic music. This alienated many of the old customers, and the label and store never managed to gain entry on the new scene. Thus, today the store is no more and the label is less active than before.
Voices of Wonder also distributed for Euronymous of Mayhem's Deathlike Silence Productions.
Voice of Wonder Records AS changed name to Voices Music & Entertainment in 2001, and now operates as VME's sublabel.

Roster
The 3rd and the Mortal
Anal Babes
Carpe Tenebrum
The Disciplines
Dog Age
Enslaved
Full Moon
Grady
Mayhem
Motorpsycho
Origami Teknika
Red Harvest
Sister Rain
The Tables
Tangled Edge

See also
List of record labels
Passage 4:
Kontor Records
Kontor Records is a record label based in Hamburg, Germany. The label's artist roster includes ATB, Tiësto, Armin van Buuren and Scooter. Jens Thele is the head manager of Kontor and is also the manager of Scooter.Edel SE & Co. KGaA is the largest shareholder of the company and distributes its releases in German-speaking Europe. Outside Germany, Austria and Switzerland, Kontor Records have arranged multiple distribution deals with third-party labels.

History
Founded in 1996, the label originated as a club night that Jens Thele organised in Hamburg's central business district. Kontor was rapidly established as a successful musical project for local DJs and producers, and this was followed by interest from international artists. Thele has explained: "We place great importance on long-term artist relationships and development, always looking to create album projects". In 2000 the 51% of the company was acquired by the German larger company Edel AG, with Thele and other subscribers retaining operative roles in the company. As of 2004, the company's office overlooks the Hamburg dockland area. Edel is still the largest shareholder of Kontor Records and currently owns 66,79% of shares.The label launched the Kontor.TV YouTube channel in 2006 and music videos, playlists and preview-mixes of new releases are uploaded onto the channel. As of February 2017, 4.5 million users are subscribed to Kontor.TV. In early 2013, the label entered into a partnership with the Spotify online music streaming service and Kontor.FM was launched in March 2013.In June 2013, Kontor garnered attention for a novel promotional campaign for the new song from artist Boris Dlugosch. The recipient of the music unfolds a device entitled "The Office Turntable" that serves as a 2D Technics turntable on which Dlugosch's vinyl single can be heard. The vinyl is neon orange-colored and most types of smartphones are used to scan an activating QR code on the fold-out device. Label staff explained to the Contagious Magazine's YouTube channel that they were motivated by creative directors who often ignore the music promotions they are sent.

Compilation brands
Kontor's compilation brands include "Kontor Top Of The Clubs" and "Kontor House of House".

Affiliate and partner labels
The Sheffield Tunes imprint is a Kontor affiliate label that released the music of Scooter. Scooter's members, H. P. Baxxter and Rick J. Jordan, are company directors of Kontor Records. As of October 2013, Kontor Records is one of the numerous partners listed on the CR2 Records website, a London, United Kingdom (UK) electronic music label founded by musician Mark Brown (also known by the moniker "MYNC").In June 2020, Kontor acquired the German rock label Arising Empire.

Artists
DJ Antoine
ATB
Armin van Buuren
Aquagen
Cascada
Code Red
Blank & Jones
David Carson
DJ Dean
Dimitri Vegas & Like Mike
KCB
The Disco Boys
EDX
Fedde Le Grand
Hardwell
Mike Candys
ItaloBrothers
Klingande
Klubbingman
Alexander Marcus
Nightcrawlers
R.I.O.
DJ Sammy
Scooter
Giulia Siegel
Special D.
Spiller
Sunset Strippers
Alexandra Stan
Lexy & K-Paul
Martin Tungevaag
Vinylshakerz
Jan Wayne
Rania Zeriri
Tiësto
W&W
Passage 5:
Statiras Records
Statiras Records is a sub-label of Progressive Records which Progressive founder Gus Statiras launched in the 1980s that recorded jazz musical artists for release on LP and CD.

Albums
SLP-8074 Jazz Piano - Judy Carmichael, 1983
Passage 6:
Under Your Spell Again
"Under Your Spell Again"  is a song co-written and recorded by American country music artist Buck Owens. The song peaked at number 4 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles chart.

Chart performance
Buck Owens
Ray Price
Johnny Rivers
Waylon Jennings and Jessi Colter
Barbara Fairchild
Shelby Lynne
Cover versions
Ray Price recorded and released his version also in 1959, the same year Buck Owens did.
Jeanne Black and her sister Janie Black released a version of the song as the B-side to her 1960 hit single "He'll Have to Stay".
Passage 7:
No Ordinary Girl
No Ordinary Girl is the debut studio album by Jordan Pruitt, released on February 6, 2007, by Hollywood Records. 
The album debuted and peaked at number 64 on the US Billboard 200 with 14,000 copies sold in its first week.

Track listing
Japanese edition
Bonus DVD
"Teenager" behind the scenes
"Outside Looking In" music video
"We Are Family" music video
"Jump to the Rhythm" music video

Charts
Release history
Passage 8:
Permission to Fly
Permission to Fly is the second and final studio album by American singer-songwriter Jordan Pruitt. On July 22, 2008, the album was released exclusively to Limited Too stores, and was given a wider physical release on August 26, 2008. In early September 2008, the album was released on iTunes, but was removed for unknown reasons later that month. Before its release, the worldwide premiere of the album was broadcast over Radio Disney on July 19, 2008.

Background
Before the release of Permission to Fly, Pruitt had signed on as the spokesperson for several multi-media national marketing campaigns with brand such as Kraft Foods, Kimberly-Clark, Colgate-Palmolive, Samsung and Limited Too. When picking songs for the album, Pruitt used her "5-second rule." If the track didn't grab her in five seconds, she didn't record it. Pruitt worked with a team of top songwriter/producers, including Shelly Peiken, Arnthor Birgisson, Tim James & Antonina Armato (better known as Rock Mafia), and Adam Watts & Andy Dodd. Pruitt also co-wrote many of the songs, and wanted the album to be more mature than her 2007 debut album No Ordinary Girl. Speaking on the differences between Permission to Fly and No Ordinary Girl, Pruitt said "I kind of grew up after the first record was done. I became more of myself. I really found out who I was and what I wanted to be."

Composition
Permission to Fly is mainly a pop album with influences of jazz and R&B. Several of the songs are about teen romance, with lyrics detailing love at first sight and the ups and downs of relationships. First single "One Love" is a reggae-tinged ode to a loyal partner, and second single "My Shoes" is about school crushes. "Boyfriend" is a confident assertion that her boyfriend won't be stolen by a flirtatious rival, and "Simple Things" is a song about how much pain can be caused by the smallest reminder of a former love. Other songs on the album are focused on self-empowerment and positivity. Title track "Permission to Fly" is about finding your own identity, and in "Unconditional" Pruitt sings about how her faith gets her through the toughest of times. The album consists of 11 original compositions with one cover, "The Way You Do the Things You Do" originally performed by the Temptations.

Track listing
Critical reception
Permission to Fly received generally positive reviews from critics. Common Sense Media opined "While some of the songs have a bubblegum sound and predictable lyrics, there are some very likeable bright spots on the album, including a sassy remake of the Temptations classic, The Way You Do The Things You Do, and the surprisingly jazzy, syncopated Secrets. And, not all of the songs on this album are about boy stuff. Permission to Fly is about finding your own identity; in Unconditional, Jordan reminds us that she's a girl of faith, and how that gets her through the toughest of times. If nothing else, this teen is versatile." The site gave the album three out of five stars.
AllMusic gave the album a mixed review, saying "On her 2008 sophomore outing, Permission To Fly, young Southern singer Jordan Pruitt presents another assured set of Disney-approved pop. While there are no drastic stylistic departures, Pruitt expands on her straightforward teen-pop sound with the reggae-tinged One Love (not to be confused with the Bob Marley song of the same name) and the R&B-leaning Unconditional." "One Love", "Unconditional", and "Simple Things" were listed as the stand-out tracks on the album.

Credits
Credits for Permission To Fly adapted from Allmusic

Singles
"One Love"
Released: June 10, 2008 (MySpace), June 14, 2008 (Radio Disney), July 8, 2008 (iTunes)Length: 3:02Genre: Dance-pop, reggaeLabel: HollywoodWriters: Leah Haywood, Daniel James, Shelly Peiken
"One Love" is the lead single from Permission to Fly. A snippet of the song was added on Pruitt's MySpace on June 10, 2008. She performed the song at the opening of the Disney Channel Games in 2008. It premiered on Radio Disney on June 14, 2008 and was produced by Shelly Peiken. It was available on iTunes on July 8, 2008. "One Love" was very successful on Radio Disney, appearing in the top three of Radio Disney's website multiple times. The song failed to attract Top 40 mainstream radio airplay, and therefore did not chart.

"My Shoes"
Released: October 3, 2008 (Radio Disney), October 7, 2008 (MySpace), December 21, 2008 (iTunes)Length: 3:04Genre: Dance-pop, R&BLabel: HollywoodWriters: Arnthor Birgisson, Savan Kotecha
"My Shoes" is the second single from the Permission to Fly. Pruitt performed the song at the opening of the Disney Channel Games in 2008. It premiered on Radio Disney on October 3, 2008. The music video for "My Shoes" was shot in a high school in Los Angeles, California on August 27, 2008. On December 21, 2008 "My Shoes" was released as a single on iTunes.
In March 2008, Pruitt started to discuss a second single from Permission to Fly with her record label. She and her record label went right for "My Shoes" so it was ready to be the second single. It was released on October 7, 2008. It was shown on the Disney Channel Games 2008. Like Pruitt's lead single from this album, "My Shoes" also failed to attract mainstream radio airplay and the song did not chart.

Release history
Passage 9:
The Power of Love (Jennifer Rush song)
"The Power of Love" is a song co-written and originally recorded by American singer-songwriter Jennifer Rush in 1984. It was released as the fifth single from her debut album, Jennifer Rush (1984), and has since been covered by Air Supply, Laura Branigan, and Celine Dion.
Recorded in Frankfurt, Germany (where Rush is based) and released in West Germany without much success in late 1984, Rush's original version reached number one on the UK Singles Chart in October 1985 and subsequently became the biggest-selling single of the year in the UK as Rush became the first female artist ever to have a million-selling single in the UK—it became the ninth best-selling single of the decade. It also topped the charts in several other European countries, as well as Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.
Dion's version peaked at number one in the United States, Canada, and Australia, and hit the top ten in several more countries in 1994. The song has been translated into several languages, becoming a pop standard.

Overview
"The Power of Love" was first recorded in Frankfurt, West Germany by Jennifer Rush for her 1984 eponymous album. This was a year after the band Frankie Goes to Hollywood conceived a song with the same title. It was released as a single in West Germany in December 1984. In June 1985, "The Power of Love" was issued as a single in the United Kingdom, where it topped the chart for five weeks in October 1985 and became the best-selling single of the year. As of March 2017, it had sold 1.45 million copies in the UK. The success of the song saw Rush perform it ‘‘live’’ on the BBC’s Top of the Pops in late 1985.The massive success of "The Power of Love" in the UK followed with widespread international success for the single in the last months of 1985 and the first of 1986, including a German re-release with a resultant number-nine charting. Eventually "The Power of Love" reached number one in Australia, Austria, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa and Spain (where Rush topped the chart with a version in Spanish called "Si tú eres mi hombre y yo tu mujer", translated as "If you are my man and I'm your woman"), number three in Switzerland, Sweden and Belgium, and number seven in the Netherlands.
CBS held off on releasing "The Power of Love" in North America feeling the disc was too European. It finally saw release in the United States and Canada in January 1986 but despite rising to number one in Canada, "The Power of Love" failed to become a significant US hit, stalling at number 57 on the Billboard Hot 100 for the week ending of April 5, 1986, and spending 13 weeks within the Hot 100. The song was performed by Rush on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson in March 1986 and American Bandstand in April 1986.

Critical reception
Michele Greppi from The Atlanta Journal-Constitution named "The Power of Love" the "best cut" of the album, complimenting Rush's voice, noting that her "operatic training shows in her incredible range (with no apparent loss of power or flexibility at either top or bottom)". Tom Ewing of Freaky Trigger stated that it's "a song about how love removes your own sense of scale, makes existence itself unfamiliar, so the disorientating disconnect between it and anything resembling my emotional reality makes a sort of warped sense." He added that the chorus is "so memorable". Alan Jones from Music Week complimented it as "frankly superior". Stephen Holden from The New York Times remarked that Rush "has a distinctive alto that combines an almost folkish intonation with a declamatory, quasi-operatic delivery. It is a voice that doesn't fit comfortably into any category." Richard Defendorf from The Orlando Sentinel declared it as a "goopy ballad". People magazine wrote that "what's most impressive is Rush's voice. Throaty, intense and wide-ranging". The reviewer also noted that there is "intelligent passion" in the "broody" "The Power of Love". In an retrospective review, Pop Rescue praised it as a "fantastically classic power ballad" and "flawless", noting that the singer's vocals are "rich, strong, and wonderfully spine tingling". Greg Kennedy from Red Deer Advocate viewed the song as "plaintive" and "poignant". A writer for The Stage declared it a "superballad".Australian music channel Max included "The Power of Love" in their list of "1000 Greatest Songs of All Time" in 2011.

Music video
The accompanying music video of "The Power of Love" was directed by German director Michael Leckebusch. It was filmed in New York City. As the video begins, we see the city in the early morning hours. Some villainous types are walking around an empty office, looking for something. They are being discovered by Rush's man, who obviously works at nights. Then the focus switches to Rush who is seen leaving Madison Square Garden. She starts singing and at home, she opens the door to her bedroom and finds her man lying asleep. When the chorus starts, Rush is standing in a freight elevator that is moving upwards. There are glimpses of the villainous men pushing her man to do things for them. Some scenes show Rush wearing black sunglasses, standing on the dock by the sea, while she watches the guys meeting on a pier to plot something. They are also hitting her man on the street by car. Apparently Rush is trying to help him out of the hands of these villains. Towards the end, she walks alone through the city in the evening hours, singing. At home, she once again opens the bedroom door, checking that her man is lying there asleep and then she shuts the door. As of May 2023, the video had generated more than 126 million views on YouTube[1].

Official versions
Track listings
Charts
Certifications and sales
Air Supply version
British/Australian duo Air Supply covered "The Power of Love" for their 1985 eponymous album. Since the song was sung by Russell Hitchcock, a man, the gender roles were reversed in the lyrics ("I'm your lady and you are my man" became "You are my lady and I am your man"). It was released as a single in July 1985 in the United States, and later in Canada and New Zealand. Their version was titled "The Power of Love (You Are My Lady)" so as not to be confused with "The Power of Love" by Huey Lewis and the News which was on the charts at the same time. Air Supply's version was a moderate success in New Zealand and Canada, reaching the top 40 in both countries in late 1985. In the US, it peaked at number 68. Their cover was featured in the 2017 film Death Note.

Track listing
Credits and personnel
Russell Hitchcock – vocals
Graham Russell – background vocals
Steve Lukather – guitar
Greg Phillinganes – keyboards
David Paich – keyboards
Steve Porcaro – keyboards, synthesizer
Nathan East – bass
John "JR" Robinson – drums

Charts
Laura Branigan version
American singer Laura Branigan recorded "The Power of Love" under the title "Power of Love" for her fifth studio album, Touch (1987). Produced by David Kershenbaum, the track was released in October 1987 as the album's second single and reached number 26 on the US Billboard Hot 100 that December, becoming Branigan's seventh and final top-40 entry. "Power of Love" also peaked at number 19 on Billboard's Hot Adult Contemporary chart.
Branigan would say of "Power of Love": "There's a song on this album" ("Power Of Love") "that to me is the ultimate in singing. It's a real emotional tear-your-heart-out kind of song. It's a classic torch song with today's feeling. I think those are the ones that live on forever.
"It has a range that keeps going on and on. It is really challenging vocally and yet it is really emotional. Emotion of the most important thing for me.".

Track listing
Credits and personnel
Credits adapted from the liner notes of Touch.
Laura Branigan – vocals
David Kershenbaum – production
Bob Marlette – arrangements, keyboards, drum programming, guitars, string arrangements
Kim Scharnberg – string arrangements, conducting
Kenneth G. Kugler – copyist
Julie Ann Gigante, Ralph D. Morrison III, Clayton Haslop, Alexander Horvath, R.F. Peterson, Arthur Zadinsky, Michael Nowak, Raymond J. Tischer II, Margot MacLaine, Armen Ksjikian, Dennis Karmazyn, Michael Matthews – strings
David J. Holman – engineering, mixing, PPG programming

Charts
Celine Dion version
Canadian singer Celine Dion covered "The Power of Love" for her third English-language studio album, The Colour of My Love (1993). It was produced by David Foster and released as the first single in November 1993 in North America, in December 1993 in Japan, and in early 1994 in the rest of the world. It hit number one in the US, Canada, and Australia and a top ten hit in several other countries. Billboard later ranked it as the 46th Top Love Song of All Time.

Commercial performance
Dion's version of The Power of Love became the best-selling single by a female artist of 1994 in the United States, and 8th best-selling overall, selling 900,000 copies. It became Dion's first US number-one song, topping the Billboard Hot 100 for four weeks in February 1994. It also became her first Australian chart topper and her second number-one single in Canada. The song also topped the adult contemporary charts in the United States and Canada. In the rest of the world, "The Power of Love" reached the top ten in France, United Kingdom, Belgium, Sweden and New Zealand. It was certified Platinum in the United States (selling 1.5 million copies) and Australia, Gold in the UK and New Zealand, and Silver in France.

Accolades
"The Power of Love" won the ASCAP Pop Award for Most Performed Song in the United States. Dion was also nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, the American Music Award for Favorite Pop/Rock Single, two Billboard Music Awards for Hot 100 Single of the Year and Hot Adult Contemporary Single of the Year, and for the Juno Award for Single of the Year. David Foster was also nominated for the Juno Award for Producer of the Year for Dion's version.

Promotion/Live performances
A music video for the Celine Dion version was released which saw heavy rotation on many music video networks and programs.
Dion included the song in many of her tour performances. "The Power of Love" is included on many of her live albums. It is also featured on several of her greatest hits collections such as All the Way... A Decade of Song (1999), Complete Best (2008), My Love: Essential Collection (2008) and The Best of Celine Dion & David Foster (2012). Live performances are included on À l'Olympia (album), Live à Paris (album), Live à Paris (video), Au cœur du stade (video), Live in Las Vegas: A New Day... (video), Taking Chances World Tour: The Concert (album/video), and Céline une seule fois / Live 2013 (album/video). She also performed the song at the American Music Awards of 1995 and her CBS television special That's Just the Woman in Me on February 15, 2008.

Critical reception
Dion's cover of "The Power of Love" received acclaim from music critics. About.com placed the song at number seven in their ranking of "Top 10 Celine Dion Songs", calling it a "big ballad". Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic "highlighted" it in his review of The Colour of My Love. A reviewer from The Baltimore Sun wrote that the singer "sounds great" when she's working with "tunefully romantic stuff". Dave Sholin from the Gavin Report commented, "A song this powerful places extraordinary demands on those who sing it. Only a rare few are up to the task... Add Celine's interpretation to producer David Foster's arrangement and the result is nothing short of superb".Another editor, Ron Fell said "it's made better than ever", adding it as "awesome!" Caroline Sullivan from The Guardian described it as a "bodice-bursting" version. Mike Wass from Idolator complimented Dion's "flawless vocal" on a "classy" Foster arrangement. Dennis Hunt from LA Times compared Dion's vocals favorably to those of Whitney Houston and Mariah Carey. He noted "that grandiose, note-stretching finish". Pan-European magazine Music & Media described the song as a "tender rendition". Alan Jones from Music Week said it "is so powerful it's sure to score". A reviewer from The Network Forty declared it "a reflective ballad brought to life by Celine's brilliantly distinctive vocals". The Plain Dealer deemed it a "soaring rendition". Christopher Smith from Talk About Pop Music viewed the song as "powerful and faithful to the original version".

Cultural impact
Siren kings, members of a New Zealand street subculture devoted to the volume and clarity of music via public address system loudspeakers, value the Celine Dion version of "The Power of Love" as a perfect song for the medium. Siren king Purp Ci'i stated that it "will smash anyone in a battle—that song is dangerous...It's an old favourite from when sirens first started."

Credits and personnel
Producer – David Foster
Engineers – David Reitzas, Humberto Gatica
Assistant engineers – Bill Leonard, Erich Baron, Fred Kelly
Mix – Humberto Gatica
Vocal – Celine Dion
Keyboards – David Foster
Synclavier programming – Simon Franglen
Guitars – Michael ThompsonCredits adapted from the album liner notes.

Track listings
Charts
Certifications and sales
Release history
Other cover versions
The Spanish version of Jennifer Rush's "The Power of Love," "Si tu eres mi hombre y yo tu mujer" was introduced by Dominican singer Angela Carrasco in 1986 and became very popular throughout Latin America. The same version was later recorded by a number of Latin artists including Yolandita Monge, Amanda Miguel, and La India. La India's version of the song peaked at number thirty-eight on Hot Latin Songs chart in the United States. Brazilian singer Rosana recorded a Portuguese version of the song, titled "O Amor e o Poder", which was included on the soundtrack of 8PM prime time telenovela Mandala (1987–88), as the theme song for lead character Jocasta (Vera Fischer). Her version was largely successful, becoming the sixth most played song in the country in 1988, as well as Rosana's biggest hit. It was also included on the tracklist for her album Coração Selvagem and propelled its sales, selling over 300,000 copies. Wilfrido Vargas's New York Band covered the song in merengue which peaked at number thirty-seven on the Hot Latin Songs chart. It was also covered by Los Melódicos and Dulce López from La Academia. Italian dance act Fits of Gloom released their version in 1994 with vocals by British singer Lizzy Mack which reached No. 49 on the UK Singles Chart.

See also
Passage 10:
Pointless Nostalgic
Pointless Nostalgic is Jamie Cullum's second album but his first major release on a record label. It was released in 2002 through Candid Records. It was recorded at Clowns Pocket Recording Studio, Bexley, Kent by Derek Nash who also co produced the CD.

Track listing
Musicians
Jamie Cullum – piano, vocals
Martin Shaw – trumpet
Martin Gladdish – trombone
Matt Wates – alto saxophone
Dave O'Higgins – tenor saxophone
Ben Castle – tenor saxophone
Geoff Gascoyne – bass
Sebastiaan de Krom – drums

Charts and certifications
Passage 11:
Here Comes the Hotstepper
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" is a song co-written and recorded by Jamaican dancehall artist Ini Kamoze. It was released as the lead single from his 1995 album of the same name as well as the soundtrack to the film Prêt-à-Porter. It is known for its "naaaa na na na naaaa..." chorus inspired by the Cannibal and the Headhunters version of "Land of 1000 Dances".
The song was Kamoze's only song to reach the top 40 on the US Billboard Hot 100, peaking atop the chart on December 17, 1994, and remaining there for two weeks. It also became a number-one hit in Denmark, New Zealand, and Zimbabwe and a top-10 hit in 13 other countries. Irish DJ John Gibbons made a remix of the song in 2018.

Usages of music sampling
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" contains several samples, including vocals from "The Champ" by The Mohawks, "Hot Pants" by Bobby Byrd, and "La Di Da Di" by Doug E. Fresh and Slick Rick. The song's instrumental samples the drums and bass from "Heartbeat" by Taana Gardner and guitar notes from "Hung Up on My Baby" by Isaac Hayes. The song uses the "na na na na na..." chorus from the Cannibal and the Headhunters version of "Land of a Thousand Dances," and the verse vocal melody is reminiscent of The Beatles' "Come Together", which was inspired by Chuck Berry's "You Can't Catch Me".

Chart performance
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" remains Kamoze's biggest hit to date. It went to number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 and on the Canadian RPM Dance/Urban chart, while peaking at number two at the US Cash Box Top 100. In Europe, it peaked at number one in Denmark as well as on the Eurochart Hot 100. The single climbed into the top 10 in Austria (6), Belgium (Flanders (4) and Wallonia (3)), Finland (2), France (2), Germany (6), Iceland (3), Ireland (3), Norway (4), Spain (2), Sweden (5), Switzerland (4), and the United Kingdom. In the latter nation, it peaked at number four during its third week on the UK Singles Chart, on January 15, 1995, and spent four weeks at that position, topping the UK R&B Chart in the process. Elsewhere, "Here Comes the Hotstepper" topped the charts in New Zealand and Zimbabwe and peaked at number two in Australia.The single was awarded with a gold record in France (250,000) and Germany (250,000) and a platinum record in Australia (70,000), New Zealand (10,000), the UK (600,000), and the US (1,000,000).

Critical reception
Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic noted that the song "lifts a line from "Land of 1000 Dances", and places it on an infectious dancehall beat -- it's a great single that deserved to be a huge hit." Larry Flick from Billboard wrote, "Reggae-splashed pop/hip-hopper is fueled by a prominent sample of Taana Gardner's disco chestnut "Heartbeat". Already getting active attention, infectious party jam percolates with innocuous but appealing rapping and familiar chants. Don't be surprised if this sleeper soars past the expected hits to the top of the Hot 100." In his weekly UK chart commentary, James Masterton stated that the "infectious dance track owes much of its success to the 'Na Na Na Na Na' hook". A reviewer from Music & Media commented, "Let's go "funkin' for Jamaica" again. Included on the OST Prêt-à-Porter, the veteran reggae man unexpectedly sees himself in the US top 10 with a chunk of '80s fatback funk."British magazine Music Week's RM Dance Update complimented the song as a "catchy funk anthem doing the business in the US". An editor, James Hamilton, described it as a "lyrical gangster's madly infectious US smash reggae jiggler using the 'naa na-na-naa' chant from 'Land of a 1000 Dances'". Charles Aaron from Spin viewed it as a "seamless, nonsensical string of ragamuffin hip-hop clichés." He added further, "Rivaling Joey Gardner's sample constructions for K7 [with "Come Baby Come"], producer Salaam Remi drops in the bass line from Taana Gardner's 1981 club classic [...], and next thing you know, you're humming "murderer" against your will. Kamoze is a Kingston native, a vet of four supposedly respectable albums, an author and playwright, but on this Top Ten hit, he could be Jah Blatt from down the block. Deeply disposable." Steve Pick from St. Louis Post-Dispatch wrote, "With this cut, he's distilled most of the stylistic variants of his competitors, sweetened them with some goof hooks and come up with a breakthrough pop record that threatens to keep folks dancing for the next several years. I'm not sure what's "Heartical" about this version, but this is the mix you want."

Music video
Two music videos were made to accompany the song. The remix version used various scenes from the film Prêt-à-Porter. It was later published by Vevo on YouTube in 2014, and had generated more than 31 million views as of January 2023.

Track listing
CD single"Here Comes the Hotstepper" (Heartical Mix)
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" (Allaam Mix)CD maxi – Europe (1994)"Here Comes the Hotstepper" (Heartical Mix) – 4:13
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" (Heartipella) – 4:15
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" (Heartimental) – 4:13
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" (Allaam Mix) – 4:36
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" (Allamental) – 4:37
"Here Comes the Hotstepper" (LP Version) – 4:09

Charts
Certifications
Impact, legacy and cover versions
Blender listed the song at number 492 in their ranking of "The 500 Greatest Songs Since You Were Born" in 2005. BuzzFeed listed it at number 46 in their list of "The 101 Greatest Dance Songs Of the '90s" in 2017. Billboard placed "Here Comes the Hotstepper" at number 126 in their ranking of "Billboard's Top Songs of the '90s" in 2019.John Gibbons covered the song in 2019 as "Hotstepper". The song charted at no. 67 on the Irish Singles Chart.In 2020, American singer Nicky Jam and Puerto Rican rapper Daddy Yankee interpolated the song's hook for the single "Muévelo", from the Bad Boys for Life soundtrack, as did Israeli musical duo Static & Ben El for their single "Further Up (Na, Na, Na, Na, Na)" alongside American rapper Pitbull. That same year, Parquet Courts frontman and artist A. Savage designed a t-shirt, Excuse Me Mister Officer (Murderer), named for a line in the song's pre-chorus, to honor victims of police brutality, the proceeds from which he donated to various US- and New York-based anti-prison organizations.In 2021, Philadelphia-based musician and social media personality Pat Finnerty enlisted Dr. Dog to cover the track for the "Hey, Soul Sister" episode of his YouTube series, What Makes This Song Stink.The song was featured in the second episode of the twelfth season of the sitcom It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia.
The song was included in the 2022 film, Sonic the Hedgehog 2, and plays during a scene where the titular character is left home alone.The song was performed by Peter Griffin and his terminator clone in Season 19 Episode 13 of the cartoon Family Guy.
It was included in the launch trailer for the video game Yakuza: Like a Dragon.
Passage 12:
Here I Am (Patty Loveless song)
"Here I Am" is a song written by Tony Arata, and recorded by American country music artist Patty Loveless. It was released in November 1994 as the second single from her seventh album, When Fallen Angels Fly (1994). The song reached a number four peak in February 1995.

Critical reception
Richard McVey from Cash Box wrote, "A far cry from her previous release, “I Try To Think About Elvis”, this easy-paced, guitar/vocally-driven tune is classic Loveless. She pours out emotions through her vocals like few can and “Here I Am” is no exception."

Music video
The accompanying music video for "Here I am" premiered in December 1994.

Charts
Passage 13:
Ornament Records
Ornament Records is a German record label set up in 1972 by Siegfried A. "Ziggy" Christmann. It initially specialised in issuing live recordings of blues artists who were touring Germany. Soon the label started releasing jazz and German (especially Moselle Franconian) folk music as well.
Artists who were recorded for the label or in some cases whose US recordings were released on the label included Doctor Ross, Willie Mabon, John Lee Hooker, Blind John Davis, Jim Kahr Group, Champion Jack Dupree, Sunnyland Slim, Tommy Tucker, Big Joe Williams, Fernest Arceneaux, Louisiana Red, Al Rapone, Katie Webster, Big Jay McNeely, Detroit Gary Wiggins & Chris Rannenberg as the International Blues Duo and Black Cat Bone.Almost all of the label's original blues LPs were—some with additional bonus tracks—re-released on CD on the CMA label in 1991. Some of these were released again on the Chrisly label in 2000 under the Ornament Blues Masters series.Ornament also had two short-lived blues sub-labels: Chrischaa and ESCEHA Schallplatten. Both of these folded in June 1978.

See also
List of record labels
Passage 14:
Hamburg Records
Hamburg Records is a Hamburg, Germany, based independent record label and artist management owned by Pyogenesis vocalist Flo V. Schwarz.

History
Flo V. Schwarz, who has been working in the music industry in companies such as Nuclear Blast long before, originally set up the label to exploit the Pyogenesis-rights after the band's contract ran out in 2002, but the company has evolved into a bigger and respected business. Throughout the 2000s, the company included an artist management department, while the musically focus was on any kind of Rock, particularly on Punk. In 2004 Hamburg Records, based at the world famous red-light district St. Pauli Reeperbahn, started their mail-order with just management and label attached band products. Throughout the years this changed and the company runs that business for quite a few namable bands and music-affine brands. Since 2006 Hamburg Records offers with Shirtagentur the service to print all kinds of merchandising and grew within just a few years to one of the biggest suppliers, especially for all kinds of Punk, Rock and Metal bands in Central Europe. In 2010 after being partners in co-publishing with EMI and Warner, for a few years already, Hamburg Records started their own publishing named Glorious Songs. The first signing was the Top40 chart-success of Itchy Poopzkid "Lights Out London".
Most of the bands on Hamburg Records, especially those who sing in German, are concentrated on the European markets, but the activities for a few bands are yet territorially unlimited.

Current and former artists
See also
Pyogenesis
List of record labels
Passage 15:
Necessary Records
Necessary Records is a record label based in the UK, founded by Warren Clarke, a former A&R executive at London Records and Edel, in 2003. Clarke describes that the label was born out of a creative necessity. "It's an outlet for records that should and must be heard. An outlet for artists that deserve to and will, touch the widest possible audience."It is most notable for being the record label of English indie rock band Hard-FiThe label was responsible for the release of Hard Fi's debut album, Stars of CCTV, before the label secured a two album worldwide licensing deal with Atlantic, which saw the album re-released in the UK and subsequently nominated for a Mercury Prize and two Brit Awards. The album also peaked at #1 in the UK albums chart in January 2006, reaching sales of 1.2 million copies worldwide, with over 830,000 in the UK alone. The band's second album, Once Upon a Time in the West, released by Necessary/Atlantic, also reached #1 on the UK album charts. The band's third album, Killer Sounds, released by Necessary/Atlantic went to #9 on the UK album charts.Necessary also have a publishing and management company.

Artist roster
Nights
Distophia
Hard-Fi
Maupa

See also
List of record labels
Passage 16:
Jive Records
Jive Records (later stylized as JIVE Records) was a British-American independent record label founded by Clive Calder in 1981 as a subsidiary of the Zomba Group. In the US, the label had offices in New York City and Chicago. Jive was best known for its successes with hip hop, R&B, and dance acts in the 1980s and 1990s, along with teen pop and boy bands during the late 1990s and early 2000s.
Jive was acquired by Bertelsmann Music Group in 2002. In 2008, BMG itself was bought out by Sony Music Entertainment. Jive Records thereupon remained a unit wholly owned by Sony up until the label’s dissolution in 2011, when Jive was absorbed into RCA Records.

History
1970s: Beginnings
In 1971, South African businessmen Clive Calder and Ralph Simon began a publishing and management company. It was named Zomba Records and relocated to London, England, four years later; their first client was a young Robert "Mutt" Lange. Zomba originally wanted to avoid record labels to instead focus on their songwriters and producers while allowing other established labels to release the material. Later that decade, the company opened offices in the US, where Calder began a business relationship with Clive Davis, whose Arista Records began releasing material by Zomba artists.

Formation and early distribution at Arista and RCA (1981)
In 1981, Zomba formed Jive Records, whose operations began with the release of British dance and pop music from groups such as Q-Feel, A Flock of Seagulls, and Tight Fit. Its name was inspired by township Jive, a type of music that originated in South Africa. Clive Davis had hoped that Zomba's connection with Mutt Lange would help alleviate the difficulties Arista was having with launching rock acts to success.

Hip hop sprawl and rise in popularity (1982–1995)
By 1982, Calder was introduced to Barry Weiss, a young college graduate who took Calder out to hip-hop clubs in New York City for his job interview with Zomba. Weiss and Calder began grooming musicians for what would eventually become the hip hop group Whodini. After two days, the group created and recorded its hit single "Magic's Wand." While the group would eventually leave Jive, the early success allowed the label to focus on hip-hop artists throughout the 1980s.In 1987, Jive cut distribution ties with Arista, effectively separating them from Davis, who eschewed hip hop music at his label. As the 1980s drew to a close, the label entered a distribution deal with Arista's sister label RCA Records, and it continued to sign hip hop acts including DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince, Boogie Down Productions, Too $hort, Schoolly D, and Kid Rock.

In 1990, Calder bought Simon’s stake in Zomba and became the sole owner of Jive Records. Jive's distribution deal with RCA expired in 1991. At this time, Bertelsmann Music Group acquired a minority share of the label and began to distribute its records directly. Weiss became chief executive of Jive Records that year. Jive opened branches in Chicago and had also become a premier label in the genres of hip hop and R&B with the success of acts like D-Nice, E-40, UGK, A Tribe Called Quest, Hi-Five, KRS-One/Boogie Down Productions, R. Kelly and Aaliyah.

Teen pop acts (1996–2001)
In 1996, BMG deepened its relationship with the label by purchasing a 20-percent stake of Jive. By the late 1990s, Jive began signing pop acts Backstreet Boys, NSYNC and Britney Spears. All three acts achieved massive success as the 2000s dawned, becoming the three best-selling acts in the label's history.

2000s: Acquisition by BMG and Sony
In 2002, Calder sold Zomba to BMG for US$2.74 billion, which at the time was the largest-ever acquisition of an independent label with major-label distribution. Calder then announced his resignation from Zomba, but continued to stay on at Jive in a temporary advisory role as Zomba was integrated into BMG. Weiss succeeded Calder as the new head of Zomba. In 2004, BMG merged with Sony Music Entertainment to form Sony BMG. During this time, Jive's management and distribution were restructured under the newly formed Zomba Label Group. Artists who had previously been on LaFace and Arista Records were subsequently absorbed under the Zomba group and placed under the purview of Jive Records’ staff. Thus, artists such as Pink, Usher, and Outkast became de facto Jive artists. Though both physical record sales and teen pop had steadily declined since the early 2000s, the output from Jive’s newer artists — particularly Usher’s Confessions album and Outkast’s Speakerboxxx/The Love Below — would prove to be profitable successes for Jive. In addition to releasing Spears’ 2007 album Blackout, Jive was now also the home of a solo Justin Timberlake, whose FutureSex/LoveSounds also saw high sales. Other Jive artists at that time included Ciara and Chris Brown.By early 2008, the BMG Label Group was said to include RCA Records, J Records, LaFace, Arista, Volcano Entertainment, Verity, GospoCentric and Fo Yo Soul  — all overseen by Weiss. Later that year, Sony and BMG dissolved its merger, with the former buying out shares of the latter. As a result of Sony's buyout, Jive (along with its BMG sisters RCA and Arista) became a wholly owned unit of a refreshed Sony Music Entertainment. Starting in 2008 Jive was all capital (e.g. JIVE Records), this change started when BMG Label Group was renamed RCA/JIVE Label Group.

2010s: Dormancy
After two decades as president of Jive, Barry Weiss left for Universal Music Group in March 2011. On October 7, 2011, it was announced that Jive, along with Arista and J Records, would be retired to refresh and re-brand RCA Records by not confusing or diluting it with other labels. All retained artists on those labels were then moved to RCA Records.The label is currently in hibernation, with the distribution of its back catalog handled by Sony Music's Legacy Recordings. Previously, the Jive brand was being exclusively used under the Sony Music France division under the name Jive Epic in France until 2019, when it was absorbed into RCA Records France.

Criticism and controversies
On September 27, 2021, singer R. Kelly was found guilty by a federal jury of acts including bribery and sexual exploitation of a child. Allegations of Kelly’s sexual misconduct had long followed the singer since his early career with Jive in the early 1990s, as well as throughout the 2000s when a video tape surfaced allegedly showing Kelly engaging in sexual acts with a minor and when Kelly was arrested for possession of child pornography. Despite the scandals, Kelly remained signed to Jive’s roster and continued to release albums with the label up to its merger with RCA in 2011. In 2018, the Washington Post ran a lengthy article alleging industry executives at Jive had been aware of Kelly's sexually abusive behavior towards young women for years, but did nothing about them due to his success as a performer and songwriter. Though the article reported Clive Calder had been warned about Kelly’s behavior as early as 1994, Calder retrospectively told the Post he regretted not having done more at the time, saying "Clearly, we missed something”. Former Jive president Barry Weiss told the newspaper that during his 20 years with the label, he never concerned himself with Kelly's private life, and was unaware of two lawsuits filed against Kelly and the label by women alleging sexual misconduct, suits in which the label had successfully argued it was not liable. Larry Khan, another Jive executive who worked closely with the singer even after viewing the sex tape, similarly implied Kelly’s misconduct was not the label's responsibility.

Discography
Artists
See also
Zomba Group of Companies
RCA/Jive Label Group
List of record labels
Passage 17:
Big Blue Note
"Big Blue Note" is a song co-written and recorded by American country music artist Toby Keith. It was released in September 2005 as the third and final single from Keith's album Honkytonk University.  It peaked at number 5 on the United States country charts. Prior to that single's release, DreamWorks Records closed its doors, so Keith had a newly-formed label, Show Dog Nashville. Keith wrote the song with Scotty Emerick.

Music video
The music video was directed by Michael Salomon, and premiered on CMT on September 12, 2005. It begins on a rainy day where a businessman had a good life, until his wife ran away with a "big blue note" on the floor. The video shows him having trouble getting rid of the note, but being unable to let go of her memory. Because of this, he is having trouble focusing at work, and an inkblot test at his psychiatrist shows up. Leading to him running a cliffside, he is actually taking the big blue note by folding into a paper airplane, and throws the big blue note off the cliff. The scene switches from a rainy day to a bright sunny day, as the businessman plays the banjo on the cliff.

Chart performance
"Big Blue Note" debuted at number 57 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks for the week ending September 17, 2005.
Passage 18:
Whiskey River
"Whiskey River" is a song co-written and recorded by American country music singer Johnny Bush.  It was a hit for both Bush and his friend Willie Nelson.

Johnny Bush version
Bush released the song in 1972 through RCA Victor and included it on his album Whiskey River. Bush later re-recorded the song in 1981 and released it through the Delta label, with "When My Conscience Hurts the Most" on the b-side.

Willie Nelson versions
Willie Nelson first recorded "Whiskey River" for the album Shotgun Willie in 1973. In 1978, a recording from Nelson's live album Willie and Family Live was released as a single through Columbia Records. "Whiskey River", despite not being a Nelson original, has come to be regarded as one of his signature songs and a concert staple.
Nelson performed the song during the pilot episode of the long-running music television series Austin City Limits—marking the first song to be performed on the program.

Chart performance
Johnny Bush
ARe-recording.

Willie Nelson
In popular culture
Willie Nelson's version of the song is featured in Rockstar Games' Grand Theft Auto V game soundtrack.
Passage 19:
Ellahy Amen Records
Ellahy Amen Records is an American-French independent avant-garde record label, launched in 2002 by former Pigface member and experimental/avant-garde musician Leila Bela. The record label is based both in Paris, France and Austin, Texas, United States. Currently, the label has three artists signed to the roster.

Roster
Leila Bela
Maya Bond
Lexion Blacklord

See also
List of record labels

External links
Official site