Passage 1:
Union territory
A union territory is a type of administrative division in the Republic of India. Unlike the states of India, which have their own governments, union territories are federal territories governed, in part or in whole, by the Union Government of India. There are currently eight union territories in India, namely Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Lakshadweep and Puducherry.

History
When the Constitution of India was adopted in 1949, the Indian federal structure included:

Part C states, which were chief commissioners' provinces and some princely states, each governed by a chief commissioner appointed by the President of India. The ten Part C states were Ajmer, Bhopal, Bilaspur, Coorg, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Cutch, Manipur, Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh.
One Part D state (Andaman and Nicobar Islands) administered by a lieutenant governor appointed by the central government.After the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, Part C and Part D states were combined into a single category of "Union territory". Due to various other reorganisations, only 6 union territories remained: 

Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Laccadive, Minicoy & Amindivi Islands (later renamed Lakshadweep)
Delhi
Manipur
Tripura
Himachal PradeshBy the early 1970s, Manipur, Tripura, and Himachal Pradesh had become full-fledged states, and Chandigarh became a union territory. Another three (Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Puducherry) were formed from acquired territories that formerly belonged to non-British colonial powers (Portuguese India and French India, respectively).
In August 2019, the Parliament of India passed Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019. The act contains provisions to reconstitute the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories, one to be eponymously called Jammu and Kashmir, and the other Ladakh on 31 October 2019.
In November 2019, the Government of India introduced legislation to merge the union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu into a single union territory to be known as Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.

Administration
The Parliament of India can pass a law to amend the constitution and provide a Legislature with elected Members and a Chief Minister for a union territory, as it has done for Delhi and Puducherry. Generally, the President of India appoints an administrator or lieutenant governor for each UT.Delhi, Puducherry, Jammu and Kashmir operate differently from the other five. They were given partial statehood and Delhi was redefined as the [National Capital Territory] (NCT) and incorporated into a larger area known as the National Capital Region (NCR). Delhi, Puducherry, Jammu and Kashmir have an elected legislative assembly and an executive council of ministers with a partially state-like function.Due to the existence of union territories, many critics have resolved India into a semi-federal nation, as the central and state governments each have their domains and territories of legislation. Union territories of India have special rights and status due to their constitutional formation and development. The status of "union territory" may be assigned to an Indian sub-jurisdiction for reasons such as safeguarding the rights of indigenous cultures, averting political turmoil related to matters of governance, and so on. These union territories could be changed to states in the future for more efficient administrative control.The Constitution does not stipulate how tax revenue is to be devolved to the union territories, unlike for the states. The fund's devolution to union territories by the union government has no criteria where all the revenue goes to the union government. Some union territories are provided more funds, while others are given less, arbitrarily by the union government. As union territories are directly ruled by the union government, some union territories get more funds from the union government than entitled on per capita and backwardness basis when compared to states.
After the introduction of GST, UT-GST is applicable in union territories that do not have a legislative assembly. UT- GST is levied at par with the applicable state GST in the rest of the country which would eliminate the previous lower taxation in the union territories.

Constitutional status
Article 1 (1) of the Indian constitution says that India shall be a "Union of States", which is elaborated under Parts V (The Union) and VI (The States) of the constitution. Article 1 (3) says the territory of India comprises the territories of the states, the union territories and other territories that may be acquired. The concept of union territories was not in the original version of the constitution, but was added by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956. Article 366(30) also defines Union territory as any union territory specified in the First Schedule and includes any other territory comprised within the territory of India but not specified in that Schedule. In the constitution wherever it refers to Territories of India, it is applicable to the whole country including union territories. Where it refers to only India, it applies to all states only but not to union territories. Thus, citizenship (part II), fundamental rights (part III), Directive Principles of State Policy (part IV), Judiciary role, the Union Territories (part VIII), Article 245, etc. apply to union territories as it refers specifically to Territories of India. The executive power of the Union (i.e. union of states only) rests with President of India. The President of India is also the chief administrator of union territories as per Article 239. The union public service commission's role does not apply to all territories of India as it refers to India only in Part XIV.
The constitutional status of a union territory is similar to a state under the perennial president's rule per Article 356 subject to specific exemptions to a few union territories with legislative assembly. As Per Article 240 (1), supreme power is accorded to the president in regulating the affairs of all the union territories except Chandigarh, NCT and Puducherry, including powers to override the laws made by Parliament and the constitution of India. Article 240 (2) allows implementing tax haven laws in these union territories to attract foreign capital and investments into India instead of depending on foreign tax haven countries.
The difference between states as listed in the First Schedule of the constitution and union territories with legislative assembly is that states were given autonomous powers as provided in the constitution without any possible interference by the parliament whereas UTs with legislative assembly (Part VIII) has similar powers but parliament is empowered to modify or repeal or suspend the laws made by a union territory (ultimate authority by the parliament unlike the independent nature of the states).
Three of the union territories have representation in the upper house of the Indian Parliament, the Rajya Sabha: Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, and Puducherry. Puducherry, Jammu and Kashmir and NCT of Delhi are the only 3 Union Territories that are exceptional among union territories in that each has its own locally elected legislative assembly and have a Chief Minister.

Current union territories
Former union territories
Proposed union territories
There have been a number of movements and proposals to carve out additional states and union territories.

See also
Staff Selection Commission
Federalism in India
Lawmaking procedure in India
List of amendments of the Constitution of India
List of Acts of the Parliament of India
Passage 2:
Bondary
Bondary [bɔnˈdarɨ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Michałowo, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It lies approximately 14 kilometres (9 mi) south-east of Michałowo and 44 km (27 mi) south-east of the regional capital Białystok.
The village has a population of 330.
Passage 3:
Baranya County
Baranya (Hungarian: Baranya vármegye, pronounced [ˈbɒrɒɲɒ ˈvaːrmɛɟɛ]; German: Branau; Croatian: Baranjska županija) is a county (vármegye) in southern Hungary. It is part of the Southern Transdanubia statistical region and the historical Baranya region, which was a county (comitatus) in the Kingdom of Hungary dating back to the 11th century. Its current status as one of the 19 counties of Hungary was established in 1950 as part of wider Soviet administrative territorial reform following World War II. It is bordered by Somogy County to the northwest, Tolna County to the north, Bács-Kiskun County and the Danube to the east, and the border with Croatia (part of which is formed by the Drava River) to the south.
As of the 2011 census, it had a population of 386,441 residents. Of the 19 counties of Hungary (excluding Budapest), it is ranked 10th by both geographic area and population. Its county seat and largest city is Pécs.

Etymology
In German, it is known as Komitat Branau, and in Croatian as Baranjska županija (Baranja).
The county was probably named after its first comes 'Brana' or 'Braina'.

Geography
This county has a total area of 4,430 km2 (1,710 sq mi) – 4.76% of Hungary, it is divided in Upper Baranya and Lower Baranya.
The northern part of the county is a mountain area with large forests, the Mecsek Mountains. The central areas are shared between the Baranya Hills and Villány Mountains. The very eastern and southern parts are flat.
The highest point in the county is Zengő in the Mecsek Mountains, at 682 metres. This is also the highest point of the mountain range.
Baranya is rich in mineral and thermal water, and also in other resources. 98% of Hungary's coal resources are found here.

Neighbours
Tolna County in the North.
Bács-Kiskun County in the East. (across the Danube river)
Croatia in the south (across the Drava river) – Osijek-Baranja County and Virovitica-Podravina County
Somogy County in the Northwest.

Climate
The climate of Baranya is a mix of continental and temperate, which makes it unique in Hungary, as the rest of the country is primarily continental. Its milder climate is due to its southern location and relative proximity to the Mediterranean Sea in comparison to other parts of the country, leaving it with warmer winters. It has the highest average annual rainfall of the Hungarian counties and a high amount of sunshine hours.

History
The area has been inhabited since ancient times. Before the Hungarian tribes conquered the area, it was inhabited by Slavs and Avars. Stephen I founded an episcopal seat here.
In 1526, the county was occupied by Ottomans and was freed in 1689. Its medieval borders remained unchanged until 1919. According to the peace treaty of Trianon, the southern part of the county (1,163 km2, 449 sq mi) reverted to Slavic rule (present-day Croatia). The re-organizing of the counties (1950) brought only minor changes (town of Szigetvár got there).
Baranya has the largest number of minorities in Hungary (more than twice the country average), providing home to 34% of the German minority the so-called Danube Swabians, and 32% of the Southern Slav minorities in Hungary.
The Stifolder or Stiffoller Shvove are a Roman Catholic subgroup of the so-called Danube Swabians. Their ancestors once came ca. 1717 - 1804 from the Hochstift Fulda and surroundings, (Roman Catholic Diocese of Fulda), and settled in the Baranya. They retained their own German dialect and culture, until the end of WW2. After WW2, the majority of Danube Swabians were expelled to allied-occupied Germany and allied-occupied Austria as a result of the Potsdam Agreement.Only a few people can speak the old Stiffolerisch Schvovish dialect. Also a salami is named after these people. Electoral History

Demographics
In 2015, it had a population of 371,110 and the population density was 84/km2.

2011 census
As of the census of 2011, there were 386,441 residents, 160,040 households, and 105,646 families living in the county. The population density was 226 inhabitants per square mile (87/km2). There were 167,453 housing units at an average density of 98 per square mile (38/km2).
There were 160,040 households, of which 63.2% were one-family households, 1.4% were multi-family households, 32.1% were one-person households, and 3.4% were other non-family households. Elderly individuals living alone were 15.9% of all households. The average household size was 2.34.
There were 105,646 families, of which 44.1% were married couples or consensual unions living together with children, 36.4% were couples without children, 16.7% were single females with children, and 2.8% were single males with children. The average family size was 2.82.
The age breakdown of the county was 20.1% under the age of 20, 7.0% between ages 20 and 24, 27.4% aged 25 to 44, 28.3% aged 45 to 64, and 17.2% aged 65 or older. The gender makeup of the county was 47.2% male and 52.8% female.
Religious adherence in the county was 46.8% Roman Catholic, 6.4% Reformed (Calvinist), 1.2% Evangelical (Lutheran), 0.3% Greek Catholic, 0.1% Orthodox, and 1.5% other religions. The non-religious were 16.2% and atheists were 1.5%, with 26.0% declining to answer.

2001 census
As of the census of 2001, there were 407,448 residents, 151,956 households, and 115,946 families living in the county. The population density was 238 inhabitants per square mile (92/km2). There were 156,632 housing units at an average density of 92 per square mile (35/km2).
There were 151,956 households, of which 68.5% were one-family households, 3.8% were multi-family households, 24.9% were one-person households, and 2.7% were other non-family households. Elderly individuals living alone were 13.1% of all households. The average household size was 2.60.
There were 115,946 families, of which 48.7% were married couples or consensual unions living together with children, 35.4% were couples without children, 13.7% were single females with children, and 2.1% were single males with children. The average family size was 2.87.
The age breakdown of the county was 23.0% under the age of 20, 8.1% between ages 20 and 24, 28.0% aged 25 to 44, 26.0% aged 45 to 64, and 14.9% aged 65 or older. The gender makeup of the county was 47.5% male and 52.5% female.
Religious adherence in the county was 64.2% Roman Catholic, 8.7% Reformed (Calvinist), 1.5% Evangelical (Lutheran), 0.5% Greek Catholic, 0.1% Orthodox, and 0.8% other religions. The non-religious were 13.4%, with 10.8% declining to answer.

Ethnicity
Besides the Hungarian majority, the main minorities are the Germans (approx. 22,000), Roma (17,000), Croats (6,000), and Serbs (500).
Total population (2011 census): 386,441
Ethnic groups (2011 census):
Identified themselves: 364,801 persons:

Hungarians: 315,713 (86.54%)
Germans: 22,150 (6.07%)
Romani: 16,995 (4.66%)
Croats: 6,343 (1.74%)
Others and indefinable: 3,600 (0.99%)Approx. 58,000 persons in Baranya County did not declare their ethnic group at the 2011 census.

Regional structure
Politics
County Assembly
The Baranya County Council, elected at the 2019 local government elections, is made up of 18 counselors, with the following party composition:

President of the Assembly
Members of the National Assembly
The following members elected of the National Assembly during the 2022 parliamentary election:

Municipalities
Baranya County has 1 urban county, 13 towns, 3 large villages and 284 villages. There are 301 municipalities.

Like Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Baranya is a county of extremes when it comes to regional structure. The county seat is one of the five largest cities (and three largest agglomerations) of Hungary, but more than 2/3 of the municipalities are small hamlets with a population under 500. Half of the county's population lives in the county seat or in its immediate vicinity, while 22% of the population lives in villages that have less than 1000 inhabitants.

Cities with county rights(ordered by population, as of 2011 census)

Pécs (156,049) – county seatTowns
Villages
 municipalities are large villages.

Gallery
Notes
Passage 4:
Tymce
Tymce [ˈtɨmt͡sɛ] (Ukrainian: Тимці, Tymtsi) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Lubaczów, within Lubaczów County, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, in south-eastern Poland, close to the border with Ukraine. It lies approximately 10 kilometres (6 mi) north-east of Lubaczów and 90 km (56 mi) east of the regional capital Rzeszów.The village has a population of 307.
Passage 5:
John C. Petersen
John C. Petersen (November 2, 1842 – July 10, 1887) was an American butcher and farmer from Appleton, Wisconsin who served as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from Outagamie County. He was elected in 1878 as a Greenbacker, and was re-elected the next year as a "Greenback Democrat" (even though he was opposed by a Democrat).

Background
Petersen was born in Glückstadt, Holstein-Glückstadt (now part of Germany but then ruled by the Kings of Denmark) on November 2, 1842. He received a common school education, and became a butcher by occupation. Petersen came to Wisconsin in 1862, and settled in Appleton, where he was elected to various township offices .

Public office
Petersen was elected to the assembly for 1879 from Outagamie County's 1st Assembly district (The City of Appleton, and the Towns of Buchanan, Center, Freedom, Grand Chute and Kaukauna), receiving 1,096 votes against 1,000 for Republican B. T. Rogers (Rep.), and 423 for incumbent William Smith Warner (who had been elected as an "Independent Democrat" but was now the Democratic nominee). He was assigned to the standing committee on public improvements.He was re-elected for 1880 by 963 votes, against 779 for D. J. Brothers, a Democrat, and 434 for P. P. Wing, a Republican. Even though he was re-elected running against a Democrat, he is listed in the 1880 Wisconsin Blue Book as a "Greenback Democrat": there were 71 Republicans, 27 Democrats, Petersen (listed separately as "Greenback Democrat") and one Greenback (David Bean) listed in the Assembly roster for that year. He remained on the public improvements committee. Petersen was not a candidate for re-election for 1881, and was succeeded by Democrat Henry Clay Sloan.

Personal life
Petersen married Wilhelmina "Minnie" Freiberg, born in Stettin, Pomerania in 1849; they were the parents of five children. Petersen was in the butcher business at Appleton for about twenty-five years, then moved to a farm in Grand Chute township which he operated until his retirement, and then returned to Appleton, where he died on July 10, 1887. His widow survived him, living until 1932. They are buried at Riverside Cemetery in Appleton.
Passage 6:
Naas River
The Naas River, a perennial stream of the Murrumbidgee catchment within the Murray–Darling basin, is located in the Australian Capital Territory, Australia.

Course
The river rises in the southern ranges of Namadgi National Park, south of Canberra, with flow generated by runoff and melting snow during spring from the Snowy Mountains. The river flows generally north, joined by four minor tributaries, before reaching its confluence with the Gudgenby River, south of Tharwa; descending 266 metres (873 ft) over its 26-kilometre (16 mi) course.The watershed boundary of the Naas River defines the southern and south-eastern border of the Australian Capital Territory with New South Wales.

See also

List of rivers of Australia § Australian Capital Territory
Australian Alps Walking Track
Passage 7:
Jerome Quinn
Jerome Quinn (May 23, 1908 – February 29, 2008) was a Wisconsin politician and realtor.Born in Green Bay, Wisconsin, Quinn was a realtor and served on the Green Bay Common Council, the Brown County, Wisconsin Board of Supervisors, the local Board of Education, and the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1955 until 1973. He was a Republican.
Passage 8:
Gmina Ujsoły
Gmina Ujsoły is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Żywiec County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland, on the Slovak border. Its seat is the village of Ujsoły, which lies approximately 26 kilometres (16 mi) south of Żywiec and 88 km (55 mi) south of the regional capital Katowice.
The gmina covers an area of 109.95 square kilometres (42.5 sq mi), and as of 2019 its total population is 4,466.

Villages
Gmina Ujsoły contains the villages and settlements of Cicha, Danielka, Glinka, Herdula, Kotrysia Polana, Kręcichłosty, Młada Hora, Okrągłe, Smereków Wielki, Soblówka, Stawiska, Szczytkówka, Ujsoły and Złatna.

Neighbouring gminas
Gmina Ujsoły is bordered by the gminas of Jeleśnia, Milówka, Rajcza and Węgierska Górka. It also borders Slovakia.
Passage 9:
Pulaski High School
Pulaski High School is a public high school in Pulaski, Wisconsin, United States, in Brown County (school district also serves parts of Shawano, Outagamie and Oconto counties), that serves students in grades 9 through 12.  Its mascot is the Red Raider.

History
The original school was built in 1909, with additions throughout the next five decades. In 1975, the high school took over an existing school along with other additions, most notably an indoor swimming pool. Another new building was built in 1998 due to a rapidly growing population.

Academics
Pulaski offers Advanced Placement classes. The student to teacher ratio is 18 to 1.

Demographics
Over 90 percent of the student body is Caucasian, while 2.9 percent are American Indian, 2.5 percent are Hispanic, 1.4 percent are African American and 1.0 percent are Asian. The school is split 51/49 male to female, while just over 22 percent of the school is eligible for free or reduced lunch.

Athletics
State championships
Boys' Basketball: 2013
Wrestling: 1969, 1974, 1993 (all runner-up)
Football: 1980 (runner-up)
Softball: 1996 (runner-up)
Cross Country: 2004 (runner-up)
Rugby: 2009, 2010, 2014, 2015, 2018Pulaski has also had a number of individual state champions.
In 2016, Pulaski citizens privately funded a $4.9 million athletic expansion project, including a new football stadium, track, baseball and softball fields, as well as expanding the tennis facilities.

Incident involving Mike McCarthy
On February 27, 2019, the school became the center of attention during a basketball game against Notre Dame Academy after former Green Bay Packers head coach Mike McCarthy was berating officials during the game. A complaint was submitted to the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association following the incident. McCarthy's behavior was criticized as "unacceptable" from the Notre Dame Academy and Pulaski athletic director Janet Batten. A day later, McCarthy apologized for the incident.

Music
The Red Raider Marching Band performed in the 2007, 2012, and 2017 Rose Parades and in the 2003 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City.

Notable alumni
Jacqui Banaszynski, Pulitzer Prize-winning writer
Jeremy Borseth, NFL punter
Carey Lohrenz, F-14 Tomcat pilot
Neil Worden, NFL fullback
Passage 10:
WAPL
WAPL (105.7 FM) is a classic rock formatted radio station licensed to Appleton, Wisconsin, that serves the Green Bay and Appleton-Oshkosh areas. The station is owned by Woodward Communications, and has studios on College Avenue in Appleton, with transmitting facilities located near the WGBA Tower west of unincorporated Shirley in the Town of Glenmore in southeastern Brown County.

Beginnings
WAPL radio made its on-air debut in 1952, operating on a frequency of 1570 AM under the ownership of the Bartell family. It was the third AM station in the market, but the first to serve the younger audience with rock and roll music.
WAPL-FM, operating on a frequency of 105.7 MHz, was added in 1965 when an FM antenna was installed on the existing WAPL (AM) tower in Menasha. The initial power was around 20,000 watts at an antenna height of 160 feet. The station's format was beautiful music.
In 1965, WAPL-FM was upgraded to a 50,000-watt signal at 200 feet with a new tower on The Zuelke Building in downtown Appleton.
By 1977, having gone through a number of ownership and format changes, WAPL-FM changed its call letters to WCXR and briefly became a Christian station. This change lasted only eight months before changing format again, this time to album rock. Shortly thereafter, the station's call letters reverted to WAPL-FM. The on-air line up included Laura Morgan, Dan Adams and program director Steve Brown.

The Rockin' Apple
In 1978, WAPL AM and FM were offered for sale. WAPL-FM was purchased by Woodward Communications, Inc., of Dubuque, Iowa.  Woodward already owned an AM station, WHBY, in the Appleton market. A strategy was developed to include the newly purchased station in the already planned new facility for WHBY on Appleton's southeast side. The plans included an upgrade of WAPL's signal to 100,000 watts of power and 450 feet of height for the antenna.
The new facilities were completed in the early fall of 1979, and WAPL and its new sister station, WHBY, won the Broadcast Management and Engineering award for "Best AM/FM Station" of 1979. Soon after the construction was complete, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ruled that high power FM station like WAPL should be at least 100,000 watts at 1000 feet. Immediately, the planning began for a new transmitter site which would allow WAPL to remain a Class C FM transmitting facility. During this time, most of the WAPL air staff went by only their first names and was composed of Robin, Dale, Cliff, Carl King, Laura Morgan, Mark Coulter and Operations Manager Dan Davis.
In October 1980, WAPL-FM began identifying itself as "The Rockin' Apple", under program director Wayne Shayne. WAPL would continue to use the nickname until 2002, at which time the station was re-branded as "Wisconsin's Rock Station". "The Rockin' Apple" was brought back as a station identifier in 2007 as preparations were being made for WAPL's 30th Anniversary celebration. In addition to Shayne, other members of the air staff during WAPL's history have included Rick Panneck, David Lee, Laura Morgan, Bob Baron, Rick Blades, and Nate Wright (Night Nate).
In April 1985, "The Mark and McNeal Morning Show" debuted with Mark Coulter, Rick McNeal and newsman Len Nelson. While Coulter departed after only eight months, McNeal and Nelson continued doing the morning show together until January 1999, when Nelson left the station to become news director of WGEE (now WTAQ) and was replaced by John Jordan. McNeal and Jordan would continue on the "Rockin' Apple Morning Show" until April 2002, when WAPL management dropped the show in favor of "Bob and Brian," a show originating from Milwaukee's WLZR (now WHQG). "Bob and Brian" aired on WAPL until March 2003. The syndicated show was a bust with Rockin' Apple listeners, causing WAPL to drop it in favor of a local, music-intensive morning shift. ("Bob and Brian" would eventually resurface in the Fox Cities radio market on WWWX.) In September 2003, WAPL reunited Rick McNeal and Len Nelson at their 25th Anniversary Celebration and announced that they would return to the station to once again helm the morning show.
WAPL received a construction permit August 27, 1987 to increase tower height and become a full Class C FM, nearly eight years after applying for it. The new transmitting facility was completed southeast of Green Bay in rural Shirley at a height of 1,175 feet above average terrain near WGBA-TV's transmitter, making the station "The 100,000 Watt Blowtorch of the Midwest". The station can be heard as far west from towns west of Wausau, as far east as cities across Lake Michigan such as Ludington and as far north as Iron Mountain, MI. The signal easily reaches the northern portions of the Milwaukee market, though a translator activated in 2015 broadcasting Milwaukee's AM sports station WSSP, also carried on 105.7, has removed some access to WAPL in that market.
The Rockin' Apple celebrated its 30th Anniversary in 2008. WAPL was recognized by the American Red Cross in 2002 as Outstanding Media Partner for their fund raising efforts following the September 11 attacks in 2001. In addition to being a national Marconi Award finalist in 2006, WAPL has won numerous Wisconsin Area Music Industry Awards and was nominated for 2008 Station of the Year. WAPL remains radio-active in the community through charitable campaigns such as Rock Against Hunger, Rock For Kids, and Rock For The Cure. They partner annually with the Leukemia-Lymphoma Society, American Cancer Society, Children's Hospital, Paul's Pantry, and area domestic abuse shelters in raising nearly a million dollars for local charities. The current WAPL line-up includes The Rick and Cutter Show with news anchor Erin Davisson, The Liquid Lunch with Ross Maxwell, The Afternoon Road Show with Elwood and John Jordan, Andy Gardner, Home Brewed, House of Hair with Dee Snider, Nights with Alice Cooper, and Sammy Hagar's Top Rock Countdown.
In 2002, 105.7 FM and AM 1570 once again became sister stations. WAPL owner Woodward Communications, Inc. purchased 1570 WRJQ and immediately changed the call letters to WSCO and installed a Sports Talk format, replacing WRJQ's big band format. In addition to WHBY and WSCO, WAPL's other sister stations include the to

95.9 WKSZ, running a Top 40 (CHR) format as "95.9 KISS FM"
94.7 WZOR, Active Rock-formatted "Razor 94.7"
104.3 WFZZ, Alternative rock-formatted "The Fuse"In late 2007, WAPL began streaming its radio broadcast online via the World Wide Web.
On April 8, 2008, the station's official call letters were changed by the FCC from WAPL-FM to simply WAPL. (AM 1570's "WAPL" call sign had been changed in 1978, enabling 105.7 FM to drop the "-FM" suffix.)In the 2009 NFL season, the station began to carry Green Bay Packers radio broadcasts, sharing rights with WHBY, giving Green Bay/Fox Cities listeners three choices to listen to the games via FM, including Midwest Communications's WTAQ (1360/97.5), which came to FM in 2010, and WIXX (101.1). Technically, however, WAPL is considered only the network's Appleton/Fox Cities FM affiliate, and not a primary station in the Packers Radio Network, despite its near-equivalent signal from Glenmore to WIXX. This had a consequence of forcing WAPL to carry the Westwood One national call instead of Packers Radio Network coverage for the 2011 NFC Championship Game and Super Bowl XLV, leaving listeners to WTAQ and WIXX for the local call of both games. Midwest outbid Woodward for the Fox Cities rights in April 2022, and the rights have now shifted to WYDR (94.3).

Awards
In 1990, under Program Director Garrett Hart, WAPL-FM was chosen "Best Radio Station" by the readers of Rolling Stone Magazine. The award was the first of five such awards won by the staff of The Rockin' Apple. The station's line-up included Hart, Nelson and McNeal, Baron, Tony Scott, Jeannie Wilde, Shane Reno, Dave Wayne, Sharon Hunter, Chris Dare and Bob Crew.
After being the runner-up in 1991, WAPL would again win the "Best Radio Station" award from the readers of Rolling Stone in 1992, followed by a third award in four years in 1993. Joining Hart, Nelson, McNeal, Baron, Wilde, Scott and Crew were Miles Walker, Karla Moore, Andy Hammer and Linda Shane. The Rockin' Apple repeated yet again in 1994 and 1995, with an airstaff including Pete Burns, Susan Currie, Ross Maxwell, Roxanne Steele, Randy Hawke, Jamie Powers and Bill Kidd. Rolling Stone discontinued the "Best Radio Station" category from it annual Readers' Poll the following year.
After replacing longtime WAPL Program Director Garrett Hart in 1997, new PD Randy Hawke led WAPL to a win as Radio and Records' "Best Small Market Rock Radio Station" in 1999. At that time, the airstaff included Rick McNeal and John Jordan in mornings, Hawke, Roxanne Steele, Ross Maxwell, Pete Burns, Scott Stevens, Rex Charger, and Desiree.
In 2006, under Program Director Joe Calgaro, WAPL was selected as one of five finalists for the Marconi Award for National Rock Radio Station of the Year. The Marconis, presented by the National Association of Broadcasters are considered the Oscars of the radio industry.
Nominated again in 2008, this time WAPL brought home the Marconi Award for National Rock Station of the Year. The Staff included Program Director Joe Calgaro, Promotions Director Elwood, and Music Director Borna Velic. The on-air line-up consisted of Rick McNeal, Len Nelson, and Jeanne Anthony of The Rick & Len Show, Karla Moore, Elwood, Joe Calgaro, Scott Stevens, and Ross Maxwell. WAPL won the 2010 Radio Station of the Year award at the Wisconsin Area Music Industry (WAMI) awards.In May 2011, WAPL was named the first ever Medium Market Music Station of the Year by the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association. The air-staff included Rick and Len in the morning, Roxanne Steele, Elwood, Joe Calgaro and John Jordan in the afternoon, Scott Stevens, Borna Velic, and Ross Maxwell.
In September 2011, WAPL again won the National Association of Broadcaster's Marconi Award for National Rock Station of the Year. It was the second time WAPL received the award in 3 years.
In May 2012, WAPL was named Medium Market Music Station of the Year for the second consecutive year by the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association. The air-staff included Rick and Len in the morning, Roxanne Steele, Elwood, Joe Calgaro and John Jordan in the afternoon, Scott Stevens, Borna Velic, and Ross Maxwell.

Birth gift to Prince William
WAPL shares its "initials" with Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, the heir to the British throne, whose full name is William Arthur Philip Louis. Upon the birth of the future king in June 1982, WAPL sent gifts to Buckingham Palace. The story was reported in papers and radio broadcasts in the US, Canada, Australia and throughout the United Kingdom. WAPL received a note of thanks from Prince Charles and Princess Diana that informed them that the Royal Family is not allowed to accept gifts, but that the items would be donated to charity.
Passage 11:
Rodnowo
Rodnowo [rɔdˈnɔvɔ] (German: Reddenau) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bartoszyce, within Bartoszyce County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland, close to the border with the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia. It lies approximately 11 kilometres (7 mi) west of Bartoszyce and 51 km (32 mi) north of the regional capital Olsztyn.
Passage 12:
Geography of the United States
The term "United States," when used in the geographical sense, refers to the contiguous United States (sometimes referred to as the Lower 48), the state of Alaska, the island state of Hawaii, the five insular territories of Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, and minor outlying possessions. The United States shares land borders with Canada and Mexico and maritime borders with Russia, Cuba, The Bahamas, and many other countries, mainly in the Caribbeanin addition to Canada and Mexico. The northern border of the United States with Canada is the world's longest bi-national land border.

Area
From 1989 through 1996, the total area of the US was listed as 9,372,610 km2 (3,618,780 sq mi) (land + inland water only). The listed total area changed to 9,629,091 km2 (3,717,813 sq mi) in 1997 (Great Lakes area and coastal waters added), to 9,631,418 km2 (3,718,711 sq mi) in 2004, to 9,631,420 km2 (3,718,710 sq mi) in 2006, and to 9,826,630 km2 (3,794,080 sq mi) in 2007 (territorial waters added). Currently, the CIA World Factbook gives 9,826,675 km2 (3,794,100 sq mi), the United Nations Statistics Division gives 9,629,091 km2 (3,717,813 sq mi), and the Encyclopedia Britannica gives 9,522,055 km2 (3,676,486 sq mi) (Great Lakes area included but not coastal waters). These sources consider only the 50 states and the Federal District and exclude overseas territories. The US has the 2nd largest Exclusive Economic Zone of  11,351,000 km2 (4,383,000 sq mi).
By total area (water as well as land), the United States is either slightly larger or smaller than the People's Republic of China, making it the world's third or fourth-largest country. China and the United States are smaller than Russia and Canada in total area but are larger than Brazil. By land area only (exclusive of waters), the United States is the world's third largest country, after Russia and China, with Canada in fourth. Whether the US or China is the third largest country by total area depends on two factors: (1) the validity of China's claim on Aksai Chin and Trans-Karakoram Tract (both these territories are also claimed by India, so are not counted); and (2) how the US calculates its surface area. Since the initial publishing of the World Factbook, the CIA has updated the total area of the United States several times.

General characteristics
The United States shares land borders with Canada to the north and Mexico to the south, a territorial water border with Russia in the northwest, and two territorial water borders in the southeast between Florida and Cuba, and Florida and the Bahamas. The contiguous forty-eight states are otherwise bounded by the Pacific Ocean on the west, the Atlantic Ocean on the east, and the Gulf of Mexico to the southeast. Alaska borders the Pacific Ocean to the south and southwest, the Bering Strait to the west, and the Arctic Ocean to the north, and Hawaii lies far to the southwest of the mainland in the Pacific Ocean.
Forty-eight of the states are in the single region between Canada and Mexico. This group is referred to, with varying precision and formality, as the contiguous United States, and as the "Lower 48". Alaska, which is included in the term "continental United States", is located at the northwestern end of North America.
The nation's capital city, Washington, D.C., was established in 1800 after being relocated there from Philadelphia. It was established as a federal district located on land donated by the state of Maryland; Virginia also donated land, but it was returned in 1849. The United States also has overseas territories with varying levels of autonomy and organization, including the Caribbean territories of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, formerly known as the Danish Virgin Islands and purchased by the United States at the beginning of World War II, the Pacific territories of American Samoa, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands, and several uninhabited island territories. Some of the territories acquired were part of the territorial evolution of the United States or a product of the nation's effort to gain access to the east.
Nearly all of the United States is in the northern hemisphere with the exception of American Samoa and Jarvis Island.

Physiographic divisions
The eastern United States has a varied topography. A broad, flat coastal plain lines the Atlantic and Gulf shores from the Texas-Mexico border to New York City, and includes the Florida peninsula. This broad coastal plain and barrier islands make up the widest and longest beaches in the United States, much of it composed of soft, white sands. The Florida Keys are a string of coral islands that reach the southernmost city on the United States mainland at Key West in South Florida. 
Areas further inland feature rolling hills, mountains, and a diverse collection of temperate and subtropical moist and wet forests. Parts of interior Florida and South Carolina are also home to sandhill communities. The Appalachian Mountains form a line of low mountains separating the eastern seaboard from the Great Lakes and the Mississippi Basin. New England features rocky seacoasts and rugged mountains with peaks up to 6200 feet and valleys dotted with rivers and streams. Offshore Islands dot the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. A recent global remote sensing analysis suggested that there were 6,622 km² of tidal flats in the United States, making it the 4th ranked country in terms of tidal flat area.The five Great Lakes are located in the north-central portion of the country, four of them forming part of the border with Canada; only Lake Michigan is situated entirely within the United States. The southeast United States, generally stretching from the Ohio River southwards, includes a variety of warm temperate and subtropical moist and wet forests, as well as warm temperate and subtropical dry forests nearer the Great Plains in the west of the region. West of the Appalachians lies the lush Mississippi River basin and two large eastern tributaries, the Ohio River and the Tennessee River. The Ohio and Tennessee Valleys and the Midwest consist largely of rolling hills, interior highlands and small mountains, jungle-like marsh and swampland near the Ohio River, and productive farmland, stretching south to the Gulf Coast. The Midwest also has a vast amount of cave systems.
The Great Plains lie west of the Mississippi River and east of the Rocky Mountains. A large portion of the country's agricultural products are grown in the Great Plains. Before their general conversion to farmland, the Great Plains were noted for their extensive grasslands, from tallgrass prairie in the eastern plains to shortgrass steppe in the western High Plains. Elevation rises gradually from less than a few hundred feet near the Mississippi River to more than a mile high in the High Plains. The generally low relief of the plains is broken in several places, most notably in the Ozark and Ouachita Mountains, which form the U.S. Interior Highlands, the only major mountainous region between the Rocky Mountains and the Appalachian Mountains.The Great Plains come to an abrupt end at the Rocky Mountains. The Rocky Mountains form a large portion of the Western U.S., entering from Canada and stretching nearly to Mexico. The Rocky Mountain region is the highest region of the United States by average elevation. The Rocky Mountains generally contain fairly mild slopes and wider peaks compared to some of the other great mountain ranges, with a few exceptions, including the Teton Mountains in Wyoming and the Sawatch Range in Colorado. The highest peaks of the Rockies are found in Colorado, the tallest peak being Mount Elbert at 14,440 ft (4,400 m). In addition, instead of being one generally continuous and solid mountain range, it is broken up into a number of smaller, intermittent mountain ranges, forming a large series of basins and valleys.
West of the Rocky Mountains lies the Intermontane Plateaus, also known as the Intermountain West, a large, arid desert lying between the Rockies and the Cascades and Sierra Nevada ranges. The large southern portion, known as the Great Basin, consists of salt flats, drainage basins, and many small north–south mountain ranges. The Southwest is predominantly a low-lying desert region. A portion known as the Colorado Plateau, centered around the Four Corners region, is considered to have some of the most spectacular scenery in the world. It is accentuated in such national parks as Grand Canyon, Arches, Mesa Verde and Bryce Canyon, among others. Other smaller Intermontane areas include the Columbia Plateau, which covers eastern Washington state, western Idaho and northeast Oregon and the Snake River Plain in southern Idaho.
The Intermontane Plateaus come to an end at the Cascade Range and the Sierra Nevada. The Cascades consist of largely intermittent, volcanic mountains, many rising prominently from the surrounding landscape. The Sierra Nevada, further south, is a high, rugged, and dense mountain range. It contains the highest point in the contiguous 48 states, Mount Whitney (14,505 ft or 4,421 m). It is located at the boundary between California's Inyo and Tulare counties, just 84.6 mi or 136.2 km west-northwest of the lowest point in North America at the Badwater Basin in Death Valley National Park at 279 ft or 85 m below sea level.These areas contain some spectacular scenery as well, as evidenced by such national parks as Yosemite and Mount Rainier. West of the Cascades and Sierra Nevada is a series of valleys, such as the Central Valley in California and the Willamette Valley in Oregon. Along the coast is a series of low mountain ranges known as the Pacific Coast Ranges.
Alaska contains some of the most dramatic scenery in the country. Tall, prominent mountain ranges rise up sharply from broad, flat tundra plains. On the islands off the south and southwest coast are many volcanoes. Hawaii, far to the south of Alaska in the Pacific Ocean, is a chain of tropical, volcanic islands, popular as a tourist destination for many from East Asia and the mainland United States.
The territories of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands encompass a number of tropical isles in the northeastern Caribbean Sea.  In the Pacific Ocean the territories of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands occupy the limestone and volcanic isles of the Mariana archipelago, and American Samoa (the only populated US territory in the southern hemisphere) encompasses volcanic peaks and coral atolls in the eastern part of the Samoan Islands chain.

Physiographic regions
The geography of the United States varies across its immense area. Within the continental U.S., eight distinct physiographic divisions exist, though each is composed of several smaller physiographic subdivisions. These major divisions are:

Laurentian Upland – part of the Canadian Shield that extends into the northern United States Great Lakes area.
Atlantic Plain – the coastal regions of the eastern and southern parts include the continental shelf, the Atlantic Coast and the Gulf Coast.
Appalachian Highlands – lying on the eastern side of the United States, it includes the Appalachian Mountains, the Watchung Mountains, the Adirondacks and New England province originally containing the Great Eastern Forest, a stretch of mixed temperature and subtropical montane forests, some of which are rainforests.
Interior Plains – part of the interior continental United States, it includes the Great Plains, as well as a number of highland and mountainous regions, like the Black Hills, dense cave systems, painted hills and badland features.
Interior Highlands – also part of the interior continental United States, this division includes the Ozark Plateau, the Ouachita Mountains, and other smaller mountain systems. This region is located largely in the warm temperate/subtropical moist and dry forest biomes.
Rocky Mountain System – one branch of the Cordilleran system lying far inland in the western states.
Intermontane Plateaus – also divided into the Columbia Plateau, the Colorado Plateau and the Basin and Range Province, it is a system of plateaus, basins, ranges and gorges between the Rocky and Pacific Mountain Systems. It is the setting for the Grand Canyon, the Great Basin and Death Valley.
Pacific Mountain System – the coastal mountain ranges and features in the west coast of the United States.The Atlantic coast of the United States is low, with minor exceptions. The Appalachian Highland owes its oblique northeast–southwest trend to crustal deformations which in very early geological time gave a beginning to what later came to be the Appalachian Mountain system. This system had its climax of deformation so long ago (probably in Permian time) that it has since then been very generally reduced to moderate or low relief. It owes its present-day altitude either to renewed elevations along the earlier lines or to the survival of the most resistant rocks as residual mountains. The oblique trend of this coast would be even more pronounced but for a comparatively modern crustal movement, causing a depression in the northeast resulting in an encroachment of the sea upon the land. Additionally, the southeastern section has undergone an elevation resulting in the advance of the land upon the sea.
While the Atlantic coast is relatively low, the Pacific coast is, with few exceptions, hilly or mountainous. This coast has been defined chiefly by geologically recent crustal deformations, and hence still preserves a greater relief than that of the Atlantic. The low Atlantic coast and the hilly or mountainous Pacific coast foreshadow the leading features in the distribution of mountains within the United States.
The east coast Appalachian system, originally forest covered, is relatively low and narrow and is bordered on the southeast and south by an important coastal plain. The Cordilleran system on the western side of the continent is lofty, broad and complicated, having two branches, the Rocky Mountain System and the Pacific Mountain System. In between these mountain systems lie the Intermontane Plateaus. Both the Columbia River and Colorado River rise far inland near the easternmost members of the Cordilleran system, and flow through plateaus and intermontane basins to the ocean. Heavy forests cover the northwest coast, but elsewhere trees are found only on the higher ranges below the Alpine region. The intermontane valleys, plateaus and basins range from treeless to desert with the most arid region being in the southwest.
The Laurentian Highlands, the Interior Plains and the Interior Highlands lie between the two coasts, stretching from the Gulf of Mexico northward, far beyond the national boundary, to the Arctic Ocean. The central plains are divided by a hardly perceptible height of land into a Canadian and a United States portion. It is from the United States side that the great Mississippi system discharges southward to the Gulf of Mexico. The upper Mississippi and some of the Ohio basin is the semi-arid prairie region, with trees originally only along the watercourses. The uplands towards the Appalachians were included in the great eastern forested area, while the western part of the plains has an arid climate supporting only scanty native plant life, and in the south, it is practically barren.
Elevation extremes:

Lowest point: Death Valley, Inyo County, California  −280 ft (−85.3 m)
Highest point: Denali, Denali Borough, Alaska  20,310 ft (6,190.5 m)

Climate
Due to its large size and wide range of geographic features, the United States contains examples of nearly every global climate. The climate is subtropical in the Southern United States, continental in the north, tropical in Hawaii and southern Florida, polar in Alaska, semiarid in the Great Plains west of the 100th meridian, Mediterranean in coastal California and arid in the Great Basin and the Southwest. Its comparatively favorable agricultural climate contributed (in part) to the country's rise as a world power, with infrequent severe drought in the major agricultural regions, a general lack of widespread flooding, and a mainly temperate climate that receives adequate precipitation.
The main influence on U.S. weather is the polar jet stream which migrates northward into Canada in the summer months, and then southward into the US in the winter months. The jet stream brings in large low-pressure systems from the northern Pacific Ocean that enters the US mainland over the Pacific Northwest. The Cascade Range, Sierra Nevada, and Rocky Mountains pick up most of the moisture from these systems as they move eastward via the orographic effect, and they are greatly diminished by the time they reach the High Plains.
Once they move over the Great Plains, uninterrupted flat land allows them to reorganize and can lead to major clashes of air masses. In addition, moisture from the Gulf of Mexico is often drawn northward. When combined with a powerful jet stream, this can lead to violent thunderstorms, especially during spring and summer. Sometimes during winter, these storms can combine with another low-pressure system as they move up the East Coast and into the Atlantic Ocean, where they intensify rapidly. 
These storms are known as Nor'easters and often bring widespread, heavy rain, wind, and snowfall to New England. The uninterrupted grasslands of the Great Plains also lead to some of the most extreme climate swings in the world. Temperatures can rise or drop rapidly, winds can be extreme, and the flow of heat waves or Arctic air masses often advance uninterrupted through the plains.
The Great Basin and Columbia Plateau (the Intermontane Plateaus) are arid or semiarid regions that lie in the rain shadow of the Cascades and Sierra Nevada. Precipitation averages less than 15 inches (38 cm). The Southwest is a hot desert, with temperatures exceeding 100 °F (37.8 °C) for several weeks at a time in summer. The Southwest and the Great Basin are also affected by the monsoon from the Gulf of California from July to September, which brings localized but often severe thunderstorms to the region.
Much of California consists of a Mediterranean climate, with sometimes excessive rainfall from October–April and nearly no rain the rest of the year. In the Pacific Northwest rain falls year-round but is much heavier during winter and spring. The mountains of the west receive abundant precipitation and very heavy snowfall. The Cascades are one of the snowiest places in the world, with some places averaging over 600 inches (1,524 cm) of snow annually, but the lower elevations closer to the coast receive very little snow.
Florida has a subtropical climate in the northern part of the state and a tropical climate in the southern part of the state. Summers are wet and winters are dry in Florida. Annually, much of Florida and the deep southern states is frost-free. The mild winters of Florida allow a massive tropical fruit industry to thrive in the central part of the state, making the US second to only Brazil in citrus production worldwide.
Another significant (but localized) weather effect is lake-effect snow that falls south and east of the Great Lakes, especially in the hilly portions of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and on the Tug Hill Plateau in New York. The lake effect dumped well over 5 feet (1.52 m) of snow in the area of Buffalo, New York throughout the 2006–2007 winter. The Wasatch Front and Wasatch Range in Utah can also receive significant lake effect accumulations from the Great Salt Lake.

Extremes
In northern Alaska, tundra and arctic conditions predominate, and the temperature has fallen as low as −80 °F (−62.2 °C). On the other end of the spectrum, Death Valley, California once reached 134 °F (56.7 °C), the highest temperature ever recorded on Earth.On average, the mountains of the western states receive the highest levels of snowfall on Earth. The greatest annual snowfall level is at Mount Rainier in Washington, at 692 inches (1,758 cm); the record there was 1,122 inches (2,850 cm) in the winter of 1971–72. This record was broken by the Mt. Baker Ski Area in northwestern Washington which reported 1,140 inches (2,896 cm) of snowfall for the 1998–99 snowfall season. Other places with significant snowfall outside the Cascade Range are the Wasatch Mountains in Utah, the San Juan Mountains in Colorado, and the Sierra Nevada in California.
In the east, the region near the Great Lakes and the mountains of the Northeast receive the most snowfall, although they do not near snowfall levels in the western United States. Along the northwestern Pacific coast, rainfall is greater than anywhere else in the continental U.S., with Quinault Rainforest in Washington having an average of 137 inches (348 cm). Hawaii receives even more, with 404 inches (1,026 cm) measured annually in the Big Bog, in Maui. Pago Pago Harbor in American Samoa is the rainiest harbor in the world (because of the 523 meter Rainmaker Mountain). The Mojave Desert, in the southwest, is home to the driest locale in the U.S. Yuma, Arizona, has an average of 2.63 inches (6.7 cm) of precipitation each year.In central portions of the U.S., tornadoes are more common than anywhere else on Earth and touch down most commonly in the spring and summer. Deadly and destructive hurricanes occur almost every year along the Atlantic seaboard and the Gulf of Mexico. The Appalachian region and the Midwest experience the worst floods, though virtually no area in the U.S. is immune to flooding. The Southwest has the worst droughts; one is thought to have lasted over 500 years and to have hurt Ancestral Pueblo peoples. The West is affected by large wildfires each year.

Natural disasters
The United States is affected by a variety of natural disasters yearly. Although drought is rare, it has occasionally caused major disruption, such as during the Dust Bowl (1931–1942). Farmland failed throughout the Plains, entire regions were substantially depopulated, and dust storms ravaged the land.

Tornadoes and hurricanes
According to a 2023 Gallup survey, around one in three Americans said that they directly experienced a severe weather condition over the previous two years. The Great Plains and Midwest, due to the contrasting air masses, see frequent severe thunderstorms and tornado outbreaks during spring and summer with around 1,000 tornadoes occurring each year. The strip of land from north Texas north to Kansas and Nebraska and east into Tennessee is known as Tornado Alley, where many houses have tornado shelters and many towns have tornado sirens, due to the very frequent tornado formation in the region.
Hurricanes are another natural disaster found in the US, which can hit anywhere along the Gulf Coast or the Atlantic Coast as well as Hawaii in the Pacific Ocean. Particularly at risk are the central and southern Texas coasts, the area from southeastern Louisiana east to the Florida Panhandle, peninsular Florida, and the Outer Banks of North Carolina, although any portion of the coast could be struck. The U.S. territories and possessions in the Caribbean, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, are also vulnerable to hurricanes due to their location in the Caribbean Sea.
Hurricane season runs from June 1 to November 30, with a peak from mid-August through early October. Some of the more devastating hurricanes have included the Galveston Hurricane of 1900, Hurricane Andrew in 1992, Hurricane Katrina in 2005, and Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Maria in 2017.
Hurricanes (known as cyclones in the Pacific Ocean) fail to make landfall on the Pacific Coast of the United States due to water temperatures being too cool to sustain them. However, the remnants of tropical cyclones from the Eastern Pacific occasionally impact the western United States, bringing moderate to heavy rainfall.

Flooding
Occasional severe flooding is experienced in the United States. Significant floods throughout history include the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927, the Great Flood of 1993, and widespread flooding and mudslides caused by the 1982–83 El Niño event in the western United States. Flooding is still prevalent, mostly on the Eastern Coast, during hurricanes or other inclement weather, for example in 2012, when Hurricane Sandy devastated the region. Localized flooding can, however, occur anywhere, and mudslides from heavy rain can cause problems in any mountainous area, particularly the Southwest. Large stretches of desert shrub in the west can fuel the spread of wildfires. The narrow canyons of many mountain areas in the west and severe thunderstorm activity during the summer lead to flash floods as well, which can sometimes be devastating, while nor'easter snowstorms can bring activity to a halt throughout the Northeast (although heavy snowstorms can occur almost anywhere).

Geologic
The West Coast of the continental United States makes up part of the Pacific Ring of Fire, an area of heavy tectonic and volcanic activity that is the source of 90% of the world's earthquakes. The American Northwest sees the highest concentration of active volcanoes in the United States, in Washington, Oregon and northern California along the Cascade Mountains. There are several active volcanoes located in the islands of Hawaii, including Kilauea in ongoing eruption since 1983, but they do not typically adversely affect the inhabitants of the islands. There has not been a major life-threatening eruption on the Hawaiian Islands since the 17th century. Volcanic eruptions can occasionally be devastating, such as in the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington.
The Ring of Fire makes California and southern Alaska particularly vulnerable to earthquakes. Earthquakes can cause extensive damage, such as the 1906 San Francisco earthquake or the 1964 Good Friday earthquake near Anchorage, Alaska. California is well known for seismic activity and requires large structures to be earthquake resistant to minimize loss of life and property. Outside of devastating earthquakes, California experiences minor earthquakes on a regular basis.
There have been about 100 significant earthquakes annually from 2010 to 2012. Past averages were 21 a year. This is believed to be due to the deep disposal of wastewater from fracking. None have exceeded a magnitude of 5.6, and no one has been killed.

Other natural disasters
Other natural disasters include tsunamis around the Pacific Basin, mudslides in California, and forest fires in the western half of the contiguous U.S. Although drought is relatively rare, it has occasionally caused major economic and social disruption, such as during the Dust Bowl (1931–1942), which resulted in widespread crop failures and dust storms, beginning in the southern Great Plains and reaching to the Atlantic Ocean.

Consequences
According to report by U.S. Census Bureau, in 2022 natural disasters led to the forced displacement of 3.3 million people, more than 1.3% of the U.S. adult population, with half of the displacements being caused by the hurricanes. The survey-report stated that in Florida, the devastation caused by Hurricanes Ian and Nicole resulted in the relocation of around 1 million people, or about one in every 17 adult residents. In Louisiana, where inhabitants were still dealing with the devastating results of Hurricane Ida the year before, more than 409,000 people, or almost one in every eight residents, were moved. Despite this, the Louisiana state saw a relatively calm hurricane season in 2022.

Public lands
The United States holds many areas for the use and enjoyment of the public. These include national parks, national monuments, national forests, wilderness areas, and other areas. For lists of areas, see the following articles:

List of National Parks of the United States
List of National Natural Landmarks
List of U.S. National Forests
List of U.S. Wilderness Areas

Human
In terms of human geography, the United States is inhabited by a diverse set of ethnicities and cultures.

See also
United States portal

Notes
Passage 13:
Cyprus Popular Bank
Cyprus Popular Bank (from 2006 to 2011 known as Marfin Popular Bank) was the second-largest banking group in Cyprus behind the Bank of Cyprus until it was 'shuttered' in March 2013 and split into two parts. The 'good' Cypriot part was merged into the Bank of Cyprus (including insured deposits under 100,000 Euro) and the 'bad' part or legacy entity holds all the overseas operations as well as uninsured deposits above 100,000 Euro, old shares and bonds. The uninsured depositors were subject to a bail-in and became the new shareholders of the legacy entity.  As at May 2017, the legacy entity is one of the largest shareholders of Bank of Cyprus with 4.8% but does not hold a board seat. All the overseas operations, of the now defunct Cyprus Popular Bank, are also held by the legacy entity, until they are sold by the Special Administrator, at first Ms Andri Antoniadou, who ran the legacy entity for two years, from March 2013 until 3 March 2015. She tendered her resignation due to disagreements, with the Governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus and the Central Bank Board members, who amended the lawyers of the legacy entity, without consulting her. Veteran banker Chris Pavlou who is an expert in Treasury and risk management took over as Special Administrator of the legacy entity in April 2015 until December 2016. The legacy entity is pursuing legal action against former major shareholder Marfin Investment Group.
Its shares were listed on the Cyprus Stock Exchange and the Athens Stock Exchange. CPB had a network of more than 295 branches in Cyprus, Russia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, the UK and Malta. The bank had applied to open a representative office in Beijing, People's Republic of China.Trading on the island as Laiki Bank (Laiki being the Greek word for Popular), as of September 2012 it held a 16% share of the market in loans and a 14.4% share of deposits.  The Bank made a series of large loans, many to Greek companies prior to and during their financial crisis. What followed has been described as "billions handed out in bad loans created a financial time-bomb". After the bank collapsed, it was rescued by the Cypriot government, which took 84% ownership on 30 June 2012 and as of March 2013 it is being dismantled as part of the 2012–2013 Cypriot financial crisis.

History
In 1901, four leading citizens of Limassol—Agathoclis Francoudis, Ioannis Kyriakides, Christodoulos Sozos and Neoklis Ioannides—established the Popular Savings Bank of Limassol to encourage saving among the workforce. More than two decades later, in 1924, the bank changed its name from the Popular Savings Bank of Limassol to the Popular Bank of Limassol. The bank also became the first company in Cyprus to register as a public-traded company.
Then in 1967, the Popular Bank of Limassol changed its name to Cyprus Popular Bank (CPB) to reflect the bank’s expansion beyond Limassol. Expansion beyond Limassol followed quickly, with the establishment of its first branches in Nicosia,  Famagusta (1969), and Paphos and Larnaca (1970). Also in 1970, Midland Bank acquired 22% of the company's shares, making Midland a major shareholder in CPB. The next year CPB relocated its headquarters from Limassol to Nicosia.

1974 CPB established its first London branch.
1983 CPB acquired all the Cyprus operations of Grindlays Bank located in the area under government control.
1992 CPB opened the first branch of European Popular Bank in Athens. CPB owned 58% of the shares of the bank; other shareholders included HSBC (formerly Midland Bank) and Greek and Cypriot investors. CPB retained branches in Heraklion and Thessaloniki
1995 CPB opened its first representative offices in South Africa and in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
1996 CPB opened its first representative offices in Australia.
1997 CPB opened its first representative offices in Serbia and in Russia ("Rosprombank")
1998 CPB establishes a representative office in New York. (NY State Banking Dept says State chartered).
2000 The Cyprus Popular Bank Group changed its name to Laiki Group.
2001 The Laiki Group established a subsidiary in Australia with five branches.
2005 The Group established Laiki Bank (Guernsey), and purchased Bank Centrobank in Serbia.
2006 The Greek Marfin Investment Group acquired HSBC's shares in Laiki Bank, establishing a strong minority share position.  Subsequently, the Marfin Investment Group through more acquisitions managed to take control of Laiki Bank, which it re-branded as Marfin Popular Bank.  In Greece, the Marfin Group consolidated Egnatia, Laiki and Marfin to form Marfin Egnatia Bank, which is the 95%-owned Greek subsidiary of Marfin Popular Bank.
2007 The bank announced the planned takeover of 50.12% of the share capital of AS SBM Pank, a bank in Estonia.MPB also acquired 99.2% of the shares of Marine Transport Bank Ukraine for US$156 million. This bank was founded in 1993 as Marine Trade Bank and changed its name to Marine Transport Bank in 1996. It has its headquarters in the Odesa region and has 86 branches.
Lastly, MPB acquired 43% of the share capital of Lombard Bank Malta for €48 million from Banca della Svizzera Italiana (BSI) of Lugano. CPB now holds c. 49% of Lombard Bank Malta.In 2007, the bank announced a multi-million financial deal to sponsor the football First Division in Cyprus until 2010.
2008 Marfin Popular Bank completed its acquisition of 50.4% of the shares of CJSC RPB Holding, parent company of the Rossisysky Promishlenny Bank (Rosprombank), for €83 million. The acquisition makes Marfin the first Greek or Cypriot bank to acquire control of a bank in Russia.
In 2010, they launched a new mobile banking and mobile trading service. In the same year, the company was selected as the bank of the year in Cyprus by the Banker.
2010 MPB sold 85% of Laiki Bank Australia to Bank of Beirut. The Australian bank received a new name, Beirut Hellenic Bank. At the time, the bank had a branch in Adelaide, four branches in Melbourne and five branches in Sydney.
2011 MPB sold the majority of its shareholding in its Estonian subsidiary and returned to its historic name of Cyprus Popular Bank (CPB).
In 2012 CPB converted its Greek subsidiary into a branch of the parent bank.
The 2012–2013 Cypriot financial crisis resulted in financial difficulties at CPB. The Cypriot state recapitalized CPB on 30 June 2012 with the result that the government acquired 84% of the bank's equity. This increased the bank's core tier 1 capital ratio towards 9%, the level mandated by the European Banking Authority.
In early 2013 CPB renamed its Greek branches to CPB Bank and on 26 March the bank sold them to Piraeus Bank. Laiki was split into a good and bad bank, the good bank (Cyprus operations) merged with Bank of Cyprus and the bad bank is in the process of being sold and finally shuttered. The board and CEO were replaced on 27 March. The bad bank was being run by a Special Administrator Ms Andri Antoniadou who was acting CEO until 3 March 2015. Veteran banker Chris Pavlou took over as Special Administrator in April 2015 until December 2016.In 2018 European Court dismisses compensation claim in Cyprus 2013 deposit-grab.