Passage 1:
Sejong High School (Sejong)
Sejong High School is a public high school located in Jochiwon-eup, Sejong City, South Korea. Its former name was Jochiwon High School.

External links
(in Korean) Official website
Passage 2:
Commonwealth Elementary School
Commonwealth Elementary School  is a grade school with more than 7,000 students, as of January 2023. It is located in Corner St. Commonwealth Avenue, Barangay Commonwealth, Quezon City of the National Capital Region, Philippines. The school is categorized as large school in Quezon City.
Passage 3:
List of municipalities in Georgia (U.S. state)
Georgia is a state located in the Southern United States. According to the 2010 United States Census, Georgia is the 8th most populous state with 9,688,681 inhabitants and the 21st largest by land area spanning 57,513.49 square miles (148,959.3 km2) of land. Georgia is divided into 159 counties and contains 535 municipalities consisting of cities, towns, consolidated city-counties, and consolidated cities.There is no legal difference in Georgia between cities and towns. Eight municipalities have merged with their counties to form consolidated city-counties: Athens with Clarke County, Augusta with Richmond County, Columbus with Muscogee County, Cusseta with Chattahoochee County, Georgetown with Quitman County, Macon with Bibb County, Statenville with Echols County, and Webster County unified government with Webster County. Athens and Augusta also have municipalities independent of the consolidated governments and are considered consolidated cities.The largest municipality by population in Georgia is Atlanta, with 498,715 residents, and the smallest municipality by population is Aldora, with 0 residents. The largest municipality by land area is Augusta, a consolidated city-county, which spans 302.47 sq mi (783.4 km2), and Edge Hill and Santa Claus are tied for the smallest, at 0.18 sq mi (0.47 km2) each.

List of municipalities
Largest cities and towns in Georgia by population
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
  County seat†
  State capital and county seat‡

Notes
See also
Georgia statistical areas
List of counties in Georgia (U.S. state)
Passage 4:
Strasbourg
Strasbourg (UK: , US: , French: [stʁasbuʁ] (listen); German: Straßburg [ˈʃtʁaːsbʊʁk] (listen); Bas Rhin Alsatian: Strossburi [ˈʃd̥ʁɔːsb̥uʁi] (listen), Haut Rhin Alsatian: Strossburig [ˈʃd̥ʁɔːsb̥uʁiɡ̊] (listen)) is the prefecture and largest city of the Grand Est region of eastern France and the official seat of the European Parliament. Located at the border with Germany in the historic region of Alsace, it is the prefecture of the Bas-Rhin department.
In 2020, the city proper had 290,576 inhabitants and both the Eurométropole de Strasbourg (Greater Strasbourg) and the Arrondissement of Strasbourg had 511,552 inhabitants. Strasbourg's metropolitan area had a population of 853,110 in 2019, making it the eighth-largest metro area in France and home to 14% of the Grand Est region's inhabitants. The transnational Eurodistrict Strasbourg-Ortenau had a population of roughly 1,000,000 in 2022. Strasbourg is one of the de facto four main capitals of the European Union (alongside Brussels, Luxembourg and Frankfurt), as it is the seat of several European institutions, such as the European Parliament, the Eurocorps and the European Ombudsman of the European Union. An organization separate from the European Union, the Council of Europe (with its European Court of Human Rights, its European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines most commonly known in French as "Pharmacopée Européenne", and its European Audiovisual Observatory) is also located in the city.
Together with Basel (Bank for International Settlements), Geneva (United Nations), The Hague (International Court of Justice) and New York City (United Nations world headquarters), Strasbourg is among the few cities in the world that is not a state capital that hosts international organisations of the first order. The city is the seat of many non-European international institutions such as the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine and the International Institute of Human Rights. It is the second city in France in terms of international congress and symposia, after Paris. Strasbourg's historic city centre, the Grande Île (Grand Island), was classified a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1988, with the newer "Neustadt" being added to the site in 2017. Strasbourg is immersed in Franco-German culture and although violently disputed throughout history, has been a cultural bridge between France and Germany for centuries, especially through the University of Strasbourg, currently the second-largest in France, and the coexistence of Catholic and Protestant culture. It is also home to the largest Islamic place of worship in France, the Strasbourg Grand Mosque.Economically, Strasbourg is an important centre of manufacturing and engineering, as well as a hub of road, rail, and river transportation. The port of Strasbourg is the second-largest on the Rhine after Duisburg in Germany, and the second-largest river port in France after Paris.

Etymology and names
Until the fifth century CE, the city was known as Argantorati (in the nominative, Argantorate in the locative), a Celtic Gaulish name Latinised first as Argentorate (with Gaulish locative ending, as appearing on the first Roman milestones in the first century CE) and then as Argentoratum (with regular Latin nominative ending, in later Latin texts). That Gaulish name is a compound of -rati, the Gaulish word for fortified enclosures, cognate to the Old Irish ráth (see ringfort) and arganto(n)- (cognate to Latin argentum, which gave modern French argent), the Gaulish word for silver, but also any precious metal, particularly gold, suggesting either a fortified enclosure located by a river gold mining site, or hoarding gold mined in the nearby rivers.After the fifth century CE the city became known by a completely different name, later Gallicized as Strasbourg (Lower Alsatian: Strossburi; German: Straßburg). That name is of Germanic origin and means 'town (at the crossing) of roads'. The modern Stras- is cognate with the German Straße and English street, both derived from Latin strata ("paved road"), while -bourg is cognate with the German Burg and English borough, both derived from Proto-Germanic *burgz ("hill fort, fortress").
Gregory of Tours was the first to mention the name change: in the tenth book of his History of the Franks written shortly after 590 he said that Egidius, Bishop of Reims, accused of plotting against King Childebert II of Austrasia in favor of his uncle King Chilperic I of Neustria, was tried by a synod of Austrasian bishops in Metz in November 590, found guilty and removed from the priesthood, then taken "ad Argentoratensem urbem, quam nunc Strateburgum vocant" ("to the city of Argentoratum, which they now call Strateburgus"), where he was exiled.

Geography
Location
Strasbourg is situated at the eastern border of France with Germany. This border is formed by the Rhine, which also forms the eastern border of the modern city, facing across the river to the German town Kehl. The historic core of Strasbourg, however, lies on the Grande Île in the river Ill, which here flows parallel to, and roughly 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) from, the Rhine. The natural courses of the two rivers eventually join some distance downstream of Strasbourg, although several artificial waterways now connect them within the city.
The city lies in the Upper Rhine Plain, at between 132 metres (433 ft) and 151 metres (495 ft) above sea level, with the upland areas of the Vosges Mountains some 20 km (12 mi) to the west and the Black Forest 25 km (16 mi) to the east. This section of the Rhine valley is a major axis of north–south travel, with river traffic on the Rhine itself, and major roads and railways paralleling it on both banks.
The city is some 397 kilometres (247 mi) east of Paris. The mouth of the Rhine lies approximately 450 kilometres (280 mi) to the north, or 650 kilometres (400 mi) as the river flows, whilst the head of navigation in Basel is some 100 kilometres (62 mi) to the south, or 150 kilometres (93 mi) by river.

Climate
In spite of its position far inland, Strasbourg has an oceanic climate (Köppen: Cfb), though with less maritime influence than the milder climates of Western and Southern France. The city has warm, relatively sunny summers and cool, overcast winters. Precipitation is elevated from mid-spring to the end of summer, but remains largely constant throughout the year, totaling 631.4 mm (24.9 in) annually. On average, snow falls 30 days per year.The third highest temperature ever recorded was 38.5 °C (101.3 °F) in August 2003, during the 2003 European heat wave. This record was broken, on June 30, 2019, when it reached 38.8 °C (101.8 °F)  and then on July 25, 2019, when it reached 38.9 °C (102.0 °F). The lowest temperature ever recorded was −23.4 °C (−10.1 °F) in December 1938.Strasbourg's location in the Rhine valley, sheltered from strong winds by the Vosges and Black Forest mountains, results in poor natural ventilation, making Strasbourg one of the most atmospherically polluted cities of France. Nonetheless, the progressive disappearance of heavy industry on both banks of the Rhine, as well as effective measures of traffic regulation in and around the city have reduced air pollution in recent years.

History
The Roman camp of Argentoratum was first mentioned in 12 BC; the city of Strasbourg which grew from it celebrated its 2,000th anniversary in 1988. The fertile area in the Upper Rhine Plain between the rivers Ill and Rhine had already been populated since the Middle Paleolithic.Between 362 and 1262, Strasbourg was governed by the bishops of Strasbourg; their rule was reinforced in 873 and then more in 982. In 1262, the citizens violently rebelled against the bishop's rule (Battle of Hausbergen) and Strasbourg became a free imperial city. It became a French city in 1681, after the conquest of Alsace by the armies of Louis XIV. In 1871, after the Franco-Prussian War, the city became German again, until 1918 (end of World War I), when it reverted to France. After the defeat of France in 1940 (World War II), Strasbourg came under German control again through formal annexation into the Gau Baden-Elsaß under the Nazi Gauleiter Robert Wagner; since the end of 1944, it has again been a French city. In 2016, Strasbourg was promoted from capital of Alsace to capital of Grand Est.
Strasbourg played an important part in the Protestant Reformation, with personalities such as John Calvin, Martin Bucer, Wolfgang Capito, Matthew and Katharina Zell, but also in other aspects of Christianity such as German mysticism, with Johannes Tauler, Pietism, with Philipp Spener, and Reverence for Life, with Albert Schweitzer. Delegates from the city took part in the Protestation at Speyer. It was also one of the first centres of the printing industry with pioneers such as Johannes Gutenberg, Johannes Mentelin, and Heinrich Eggestein. Among the darkest periods in the city's long history were the years 1349 (Strasbourg massacre), 1518 (Dancing plague), 1793 (Reign of Terror), 1870 (Siege of Strasbourg) and the years 1940–1944 with the Nazi occupation (atrocities such as the Jewish skull collection) and the British and American bombing raids. Some other notable dates were the years 357 (Battle of Argentoratum), 842 (Oaths of Strasbourg), 1538 (establishment of the university), 1605 (world's first newspaper printed by Johann Carolus), 1792 (La Marseillaise), and 1889 (pancreatic origin of diabetes discovered by Minkowski and Von Mering).
Strasbourg has been the seat of European institutions since 1949: first of the International Commission on Civil Status and of the Council of Europe, later of the European Parliament, of the European Science Foundation, of Eurocorps, and others as well.

Districts
Strasbourg is divided into the following districts:
Bourse, Esplanade, Krutenau
Centre Ville (Downtown Strasbourg)
Gare, Tribunal (Central Station, Court)
Conseil des XV, Orangerie
Cronenbourg
Hautepierre, Poteries
Koenigshoffen,
Montagne-Verte (Green Hill)
Elsau
Meinau
Neudorf-Musau
Neuhof 1 (including Ganzau)
Neuhof 2
Robertsau
Port du Rhin (Rhin's Harbor)

Main sights
Architecture
The city is chiefly known for its sandstone Gothic Cathedral with its famous astronomical clock, and for its medieval cityscape of Rhineland black and white timber-framed buildings, particularly in the Petite France district or Gerberviertel ("tanners' district") alongside the Ill and in the streets and squares surrounding the cathedral, where the renowned Maison Kammerzell stands out.
Notable medieval streets include Rue Mercière, Rue des Dentelles, Rue du Bain aux Plantes, Rue des Juifs, Rue des Frères, Rue des Tonneliers, Rue du Maroquin, Rue des Charpentiers, Rue des Serruriers, Grand' Rue, Quai des Bateliers, Quai Saint-Nicolas and Quai Saint-Thomas.
Notable medieval squares include Place de la Cathédrale, Place du Marché Gayot, Place Saint-Étienne, Place du Marché aux Cochons de Lait and Place Benjamin Zix.

In addition to the cathedral, Strasbourg houses several other medieval churches that have survived the many wars and destructions that have plagued the city: the Romanesque Église Saint-Étienne, partly destroyed in 1944 by Allied bombing raids; the part-Romanesque, part-Gothic, very large Église Saint-Thomas with its Silbermann organ on which Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Albert Schweitzer played; the Gothic Église protestante Saint-Pierre-le-Jeune with its crypt dating back to the seventh century and its cloister partly from the eleventh century; the Gothic Église Saint-Guillaume with its fine early-Renaissance stained glass and furniture; the Gothic Église Saint-Jean; the part-Gothic, part-Art Nouveau Église Sainte-Madeleine etc. The Neo-Gothic church Saint-Pierre-le-Vieux Catholique (there is also an adjacent church Saint-Pierre-le-Vieux Protestant) serves as a shrine for several 15th-century wood-worked and painted altars coming from other, now destroyed churches and installed there for public display; especially the Passion of Christ. Among the numerous secular medieval buildings, the monumental Ancienne Douane (old custom-house) stands out.
The German Renaissance has bequeathed the city some noteworthy buildings (especially the current Chambre de commerce et d'industrie, former town hall, on Place Gutenberg), as did the French Baroque and Classicism with several hôtels particuliers (i.e. palaces), among which the Palais Rohan (completed 1742, used for university purposes from 1872 to 1895, now housing three museums) is the most spectacular. Other buildings of its kind are the "Hôtel de Hanau" (1736, now the city hall); the Hôtel de Klinglin (1736, now residence of the préfet); the Hôtel des Deux-Ponts (1755, now residence of the military governor); the Hôtel d'Andlau-Klinglin (1725, now seat of the administration of the Port autonome de Strasbourg) etc. The largest baroque building of Strasbourg though is the 150-metre-long (490 ft) 1720s main building of the Hôpital civil.
As for French Neo-classicism, it is the Opera House on Place Broglie that most prestigiously represents this style.
Strasbourg also offers high-class eclecticist buildings in its very extended German district, the Neustadt, being the main memory of Wilhelmian architecture since most of the major cities in Germany proper suffered intensive damage during World War II. Streets, boulevards and avenues are homogeneous, surprisingly high (up to seven stories) and broad examples of German urban lay-out and of this architectural style that summons and mixes up five centuries of European architecture as well as Neo-Egyptian, Neo-Greek and Neo-Babylonian styles. The former imperial palace Palais du Rhin, the most political and thus heavily criticized of all German Strasbourg buildings epitomizes the grand scale and stylistic sturdiness of this period. But the two most handsome and ornate buildings of these times are the École internationale des Pontonniers (the former Höhere Mädchenschule, with its towers, turrets and multiple round and square angles and the Haute école des arts du Rhin with its lavishly ornate façade of painted bricks, woodwork and majolica.

Notable streets of the German district include: Avenue de la Forêt Noire, Avenue des Vosges, Avenue d'Alsace, Avenue de la Marseillaise, Avenue de la Liberté, Boulevard de la Victoire, Rue Sellénick, Rue du Général de Castelnau, Rue du Maréchal Foch, and Rue du Maréchal Joffre. Notable squares of the German district include Place de la République, Place de l'Université, Place Brant, and Place Arnold.
Impressive examples of Prussian military architecture of the 1880s can be found along the newly reopened Rue du Rempart, displaying large-scale fortifications among which the aptly named Kriegstor (war gate).
As for modern and contemporary architecture, Strasbourg possesses some fine Art Nouveau buildings (such as the huge Palais des Fêtes and houses and villas like Villa Schutzenberger and Hôtel Brion), good examples of post-World War II functional architecture (the Cité Rotterdam, for which Le Corbusier did not succeed in the architectural contest) and, in the very extended Quartier Européen, some spectacular administrative buildings of sometimes utterly large size, among which the European Court of Human Rights building by Richard Rogers is arguably the finest. Other noticeable contemporary buildings are the new Music school Cité de la Musique et de la Danse, the Musée d'Art moderne et contemporain and the Hôtel du Département facing it, as well as, in the outskirts, the tramway-station Hoenheim-Nord designed by Zaha Hadid.

The city has many bridges, including the medieval and four-towered Ponts Couverts that, despite their name, are no longer covered. Next to the Ponts Couverts is the Barrage Vauban, a part of Vauban's 17th-century fortifications, that does include a covered bridge. Other bridges are the ornate 19th-century Pont de la Fonderie (1893, stone) and Pont d'Auvergne (1892, iron), as well as architect Marc Mimram's futuristic Passerelle over the Rhine, opened in 2004.
The largest square at the centre of the city of Strasbourg is the Place Kléber. Located in the heart of the city's commercial area, it was named after general Jean-Baptiste Kléber, born in Strasbourg in 1753 and assassinated in 1800 in Cairo. In the square is a statue of Kléber, under which is a vault containing his remains. On the north side of the square is the Aubette (Orderly Room), built by Jacques François Blondel, architect of the king, in 1765–1772.

Parks
Strasbourg features a number of prominent parks, of which several are of cultural and historical interest: the Parc de l'Orangerie, laid out as a French garden by André le Nôtre and remodeled as an English garden on behalf of Joséphine de Beauharnais, now displaying noteworthy French gardens, a neo-classical castle and a small zoo; the Parc de la Citadelle, built around impressive remains of the 17th-century fortress erected close to the Rhine by Vauban; the Parc de Pourtalès, laid out in English style around a baroque castle (heavily restored in the 19th century) that now houses a small three-star hotel, and featuring an open-air museum of international contemporary sculpture.
The Jardin botanique de l'Université de Strasbourg (botanical garden) was created under the German administration next to the Observatory of Strasbourg, built in 1881, and still owns some greenhouses of those times. The Parc des Contades, although the oldest park of the city, was completely remodeled after World War II. The futuristic Parc des Poteries is an example of European park-conception in the late 1990s. The Jardin des deux Rives, spread over Strasbourg and Kehl on both sides of the Rhine opened in 2004 and is the most extended (60-hectare) park of the agglomeration. The most recent park is Parc du Heyritz (8,7 ha), opened in 2014 along a canal facing the hôpital civil.

Museums
As of 2020, the city of Strasbourg has eleven municipal museums (including Aubette 1928), eleven university museums, and at least two privately owned museums (Musée vodou and Musée du barreau de Strasbourg). Five communes in the metropolitan area also have museums (see below), three of them dedicated to military history.

Overview
The collections in Strasbourg are distributed over a wide range of museums, according to a system that takes into account not only the types and geographical provenances of the items, but also the epochs. This concerns in particular the following domains:

Old Master paintings from the Germanic Rhenish territories and until 1681 are displayed in the Musée de l'Œuvre Notre-Dame (MOND); old master paintings from all the rest of Europe (including the Dutch Rhenish territories) and until 1871, as well as old master paintings from the Germanic Rhenish territories between 1681 and 1871, are displayed in the Musée des Beaux-Arts; paintings since 1871 are displayed in the Musée d'art moderne et contemporain (MAMCS).
Decorative arts until 1681 are on display in the MOND, decorative arts from the years 1681 until 1871 are on display in the Musée des arts décoratifs, decorative arts after 1871 are on display at the MAMCS, with items from each epoch also shown in the Musée historique.
Prints and drawings until 1871 are displayed in the Cabinet des estampes et dessins, save for the original plans of Strasbourg Cathedral, displayed in the MOND. Prints and drawings after 1871 are displayed in the MAMCS, and in the Musée Tomi Ungerer/Centre international de l'illustration (the combined number of prints and drawings amounts to well over 200,000).
Artefacts from Ancient Egypt are on display in two entirely different collections, one in the Musée archéologique and the other belonging to the Instituts d'Égyptologie et de Papyrologie of the University of Strasbourg.

Fine art museums
The Musée des Beaux-Arts owns paintings by Hans Memling, Francisco de Goya, Tintoretto, Paolo Veronese, Giotto di Bondone, Sandro Botticelli, Peter Paul Rubens, Anthony van Dyck, El Greco, Correggio, Cima da Conegliano and Piero di Cosimo, among others.
The Musée de l'Œuvre Notre-Dame (located in a part-Gothic, part-Renaissance building next to the cathedral) houses a large and renowned collection of medieval and Renaissance upper-Rhenish art, among which original sculptures, plans and stained glass from the cathedral and paintings by Hans Baldung and Sebastian Stoskopff.
The Musée d'Art moderne et contemporain is among the largest museums of its kind in France.
The Musée des Arts décoratifs, located in the sumptuous former residence of the cardinals of Rohan, the Palais Rohan displays a reputable collection of 18th century furniture and china.
The Cabinet des estampes et des dessins displays five centuries of engravings and drawings, but also woodcuts and lithographies.
The Musée Tomi Ungerer/Centre international de l'illustration, located in a large former villa next to the Theatre, displays original works by Ungerer and other artists (Saul Steinberg, Ronald Searle ... ) as well as Ungerer's large collection of ancient toys.

Other museums
The Musée archéologique presents a large display of regional findings from the first ages of man to the sixth century, focusing on the Roman and Celtic period. It also includes a collection of works from Ancient Egypt and Ancient Greece, assembled and bequeathed by Gustave Schlumberger.
The Musée alsacien is dedicated to traditional Alsatian daily life.
Le Vaisseau ("The vessel") is a science and technology centre, especially designed for children.
The Musée historique (historical museum) is dedicated to the tumultuous history of the city and displays many artifacts of the times, including the Grüselhorn, the horn that was blown at 10 every evening during medieval times to order the Jews out of the city.
The Musée vodou (Voodoo museum) opened its doors on 28 November 2013. Displaying a private collection of artefacts from Haiti, it is located in a former water tower (château d'eau) built in 1883 and classified as a Monument historique.
The Musée du barreau de Strasbourg (The Strasbourg bar association museum) is a museum dedicated to the work and the history of lawyers in the city.

University museums
The Université de Strasbourg is in charge of a number of permanent public displays of its collections of scientific artefacts and products of all kinds of exploration and research.
The Musée zoologique is one of the oldest in France and is especially famous for its collection of birds. The museum is co-administrated by the municipality.
The Gypsothèque (also known as Musée des moulages or Musée Adolf Michaelis) is France's second-largest cast collection and the largest university cast collection in France.
The Musée de Sismologie et Magnétisme terrestre displays antique instruments of measure.
The Musée Pasteur is a collection of medical curiosities.
The Musée de minéralogie is dedicated to minerals.
The Musée d'Égyptologie houses a collections of archaeological findings made in and brought from Egypt and Sudan. This collection is entirely separate from the Schlumberger collection of the Musée archéologique (see above).
The Crypte aux étoiles ("star crypt") is situated in the vaulted basement below the Observatory of Strasbourg and displays old telescopes and other antique astronomical devices such as clocks and theodolites.

Museums in the suburbs
Musée Les Secrets du Chocolat (Chocolate museum) in Geispolsheim
Fort Frère in Oberhausbergen
Fort Rapp in Reichstett
Pixel Museum, a video game museum, in Schiltigheim
MM Park France, a military museum, in La Wantzenau

Demographics
The commune of Strasbourg proper had a population of 290,576 on 1 January 2020, the result of a constant moderate annual growth which is also reflected in the constant growth of the number of students at its university (e. g. from 42,000 students in 2010 to 52,000 students in 2019). The metropolitan area of Strasbourg had a population of 853,110 inhabitants in 2019 (French side of the border only), while the transnational Eurodistrict had a population of 1,000,000 in 2022.
In the Middle Ages, Strasbourg (a Free imperial city since 1262), was an important town. According to a 1444 census, the population was circa 20,000; only one third less than Cologne, then a major European city.

Population growth
Population composition
Culture
Strasbourg is the seat of internationally renowned institutions of music and drama:

The Orchestre philharmonique de Strasbourg, founded in 1855, one of the oldest symphonic orchestras in western Europe. Based since 1975 in the Palais de la musique et des congrès.
The Opéra national du Rhin
The Théâtre national de Strasbourg
The Percussions de Strasbourg
The Théâtre du Maillon
The "Laiterie"
Joshy's house - a venue for performance poetry and freestyle urban music.
Au ZénithOther theatres are the Théâtre jeune public, the TAPS Scala, the Kafteur ...

Events
Musica, international festival of contemporary classical music (autumn)
Festival international de Strasbourg (founded in 1932), festival of classical music and jazz (summer)
Festival des Artefacts, festival of contemporary non-classical music
Les Nuits électroniques de l'Ososphère
Strasbourg European Fantastic Film Festival is an annual film festival devoted to science fiction, horror and fantasy. It was known as the Spectre Film Festival before 2008.
Strasbulles is the annual comic con, also known as the European Festival of Bande Dessinée
The Strasbourg International Film Festival is an annual film festival focusing on new and emerging independent filmmakers from around the world.
Christkindelsmärik, held from the end of November through December, is an annual Christmas market that dates back to 1570.

Education
Universities and tertiary education
Strasbourg, well known as centre of humanism, has a long history of excellence in higher-education, at the crossroads of French and German intellectual traditions. Although Strasbourg had been annexed by the Kingdom of France in 1683, it still remained connected to the German-speaking intellectual world throughout the 18th century, and the university attracted numerous students from the Holy Roman Empire, with Goethe, Metternich and Montgelas, who studied law in Strasbourg, among the most prominent. With 19 Nobel prizes in total, Strasbourg is the most eminent French university outside of Paris.
Up until January 2009, there were three universities in Strasbourg, with an approximate total of 48,500 students as of 2007 (another 4,500 students are being taught at one of the diverse post-graduate schools):
Strasbourg I – Louis Pasteur University
Strasbourg II – Marc Bloch University
Strasbourg III – Robert Schuman UniversityAs of 1 January 2009, those three universities have merged and now constitute the Université de Strasbourg.
Schools part of the Université de Strasbourg include:

Sciences Po Strasbourg (Institut d'études politiques de Strasbourg), the University of Strasbourg's political science & international studies center
The EMS (EM Strasbourg Business School), the University of Strasbourg's business school
The INSA (Institut national des sciences appliquées), the University of Strasbourg's engineering school
The ENA (École nationale d'administration). ENA trains most of the nation's high-ranking civil servants. The relocation to Strasbourg was meant to give a European vocation to the school and to implement the French government's "décentralisation" plan.
The ISEG Group (Institut supérieur européen de gestion group)
The ECPM (École européenne de chimie, polymères et matériaux)
The EPITA (École pour l'informatique et les techniques avancées)
The EPITECH (École pour l'informatique et les nouvelles technologies)
The ITIRI (Institute de traducteurs, d'interpretes, et de relations Internationales)
The INET (Institut national des études territoriales)
The IIEF (Institut international d'études françaises)
Three IUTs (Instituts universitaires de technologie located in Schiltigheim, Illkirch, and Haguenau)
The ENGEES (École nationale du génie de l'eau et de l'environnement de Strasbourg)
The CUEJ (Centre universitaire d'enseignement du journalisme)
TÉLÉCOM Physique Strasbourg (École nationale supérieure de physique de Strasbourg), Institute of Technology, located in the South of Strasbourg (Illkirch-Graffenstaden)

Other Tertiary institutions
Two American colleges have a base in Strasbourg: University of Syracuse, NY, and Centre College, KT. There is also HEAR (Haute école des arts du Rhin) the celebrated art school, and the International Space University in the south of Strasbourg (Illkirch-Graffenstaden).

Primary and secondary education
International schools include:
Multiple levels:

European School of Strasbourg (priority given to children whose parents are employed at the European institutions)For elementary education:
École Internationale Robert Schuman
International School at Lucie Berger
Russian Mission School in StrasbourgFor middle school/junior high school education:
Collège International de l'EsplanadeFor senior high school/sixth form college:
Lycée International des Pontonniers (FR)
Lycée International Jean Sturm

Libraries
The Bibliothèque nationale et universitaire (BNU) is, with its collection of more than 3,000,000 titles, the second-largest library in France after the Bibliothèque nationale de France. It was founded by the German administration after the complete destruction of the previous municipal library in 1871 and holds the unique status of being simultaneously a students' and a national library. The Strasbourg municipal library had been marked erroneously as "City Hall" in a French commercial map, which had been captured and used by the German artillery to lay their guns. A librarian from Munich later pointed out "...that the destruction of the precious collection was not the fault of a German artillery officer, who used the French map, but of the slovenly and inaccurate scholarship of a Frenchman."The municipal library Bibliothèque municipale de Strasbourg (BMS) administrates a network of ten medium-sized librairies in different areas of the town. A six stories high "Grande bibliothèque", the Médiathèque André Malraux, was inaugurated on 19 September 2008 and is considered the largest in Eastern France.

Incunabula
As one of the earliest centers of book-printing in Europe (see above: History), Strasbourg for a long time held a large number of incunabula — books printed before 1500 — in its library as one of its most precious heritages: no less than 7,000. After the total destruction of this institution in 1870, however, a new collection had to be reassembled from scratch. Today, Strasbourg's different public and institutional libraries again display a sizable total number of incunabula, distributed as follows: Bibliothèque nationale et universitaire, ca. 2,120, Médiathèque de la ville et de la communauté urbaine de Strasbourg, 349, Bibliothèque du Grand Séminaire, 238, Médiathèque protestante, 66, and Bibliothèque alsatique du Crédit Mutuel, 5.

Transport
Train services operate from the Gare de Strasbourg, the city's main station in the city centre, eastward to Offenburg and Karlsruhe in Germany, westward to Metz and Paris, and southward to Basel. Strasbourg's links with the rest of France have improved due to its recent connection to the TGV network, with the first phase of the TGV Est (Paris–Strasbourg) in 2007, the TGV Rhin-Rhône (Strasbourg-Lyon) in 2012, and the second phase of the TGV Est in July 2016.
Strasbourg also has its own airport, serving major domestic destinations as well as international destinations in Europe and northern Africa. The airport is linked to the Gare de Strasbourg by a frequent train service.City transport in Strasbourg includes the futurist-looking Strasbourg tramway, which opened in 1994 and is operated by the regional transit company Compagnie des Transports Strasbourgeois (CTS), consisting of 6 lines with a total length of 55.8 km (34.7 mi). The CTS also operates a comprehensive bus network throughout the city that is integrated with the trams. With more than 500 km (311 mi) of bicycle paths, biking in the city is convenient and the CTS operates a cheap bike-sharing scheme named Vélhop. The CTS, and its predecessors, also operated a previous generation of tram system between 1878 and 1960, complemented by trolleybus routes between 1939 and 1962.Being on the Ill and close to the Rhine, Strasbourg has always been an important centre of fluvial navigation, as is attested by archeological findings. In 1682 the Canal de la Bruche was added to the river navigations, initially to provide transport for sandstone from quarries in the Vosges for use in the fortification of the city. That canal has since closed, but the subsequent Canal du Rhône au Rhin, Canal de la Marne au Rhin and Grand Canal d'Alsace are still in use, as is the important activity of the Port autonome de Strasbourg. Water tourism inside the city proper attracts hundreds of thousands of tourists yearly.
The tram system that now criss-crosses the historic city centre complements walking and biking in it. The centre has been transformed into a pedestrian priority zone that enables and invites walking and biking by making these active modes of transport comfortable, safe and enjoyable. These attributes are accomplished by applying the principle of "filtered permeability" to the existing irregular network of streets. It means that the network adaptations favour active transport and, selectively, "filter out" the car by reducing the number of streets that run through the centre. While certain streets are discontinuous for cars, they connect to a network of pedestrian and bike paths which permeate the entire centre. In addition, these paths go through public squares and open spaces increasing the enjoyment of the trip. This logic of filtering a mode of transport is fully expressed in a comprehensive model for laying out neighbourhoods and districts – the fused grid.
At present the A35 autoroute, which parallels the Rhine between Karlsruhe and Basel, and the A4 autoroute, which links Paris with Strasbourg, penetrate close to the centre of the city. The Grand contournement ouest (GCO) project, programmed since 1999, planned to construct a 24-kilometre-long (15 mi) highway connection between the junctions of the A4 and the A35 autoroutes in the north and of the A35 and A352 autoroutes in the south. This routes well to the west of the city in order to divest a significant portion of motorized traffic from the unité urbaine. The GCO project was opposed by environmentalists, who created a ZAD (or Zone to Defend). After much delay, the GCO was finally inaugurated on 11 December 2021.

Strasbourg public transport statistics
The average amount of time people spend commuting on public transport in Strasbourg on weekdays is 52 min. 7% of travellers on public transport travel for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transport is 9 min and 11% of passengers wait for more than 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually travel in a single trip on public transport is 3.9 km (2.4 mi), whilst none travels for more than 12 km (7.5 mi) in a single direction.

European role
Institutions
Strasbourg is the seat of over twenty international institutions, most famously of the Council of Europe and of the European Parliament, of which it is the official seat. Strasbourg is considered the legislative and democratic capital of the European Union, while Brussels is considered the executive and administrative capital and Luxembourg the judiciary and financial capital.Strasbourg is the seat of the following organisations, among others:

Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine (since 1920)
Council of Europe with all the bodies and organisations affiliated to this institution (since 1949)
European Parliament (since 1952)
European Ombudsman
Eurocorps headquarters,
Franco-German television channel Arte
European Science Foundation
International Institute of Human Rights
Human Frontier Science Program
International Commission on Civil Status
Assembly of European Regions
Centre for European Studies (French: Centre d'études européennes de Strasbourg)
Sakharov Prize

Eurodistrict
France and Germany have created a Eurodistrict straddling the Rhine, combining the Greater Strasbourg and the Ortenau district of Baden-Württemberg, with some common administration. It was established in 2005 and has been fully functional since 2010.

Sports
Sporting teams from Strasbourg are the Racing Club de Strasbourg Alsace (football), SIG Strasbourg (basketball) and the Étoile Noire (ice hockey). The women's tennis Internationaux de Strasbourg is one of the most important French tournaments of its kind outside Roland-Garros. In 1922, Strasbourg was the venue for the XVI Grand Prix de l'A.C.F. which saw Fiat battle Bugatti, Ballot, Rolland Pilain, and Britain's Aston Martin and Sunbeam.
In 2006 Strasbourg hosted the Grand Depart of the Tour de France.
The city is home to SN Strasbourg, a First division water polo team that plays its home games at the Piscine de la Kibitzenau.

Honours
Honours associated with the city of Strasbourg:

The Medal of Honor Strasbourg
Sakharov Prize seated in Strasbourg
City of Strasbourg Silver (gilt) Medal, a former medal with City Coat of Arms and Ten Arms of the Cities of the Dekapolis

Notable people
In chronological order, notable people born in Strasbourg include: Eric of Friuli, Johannes Tauler, Sebastian Brant, Jean Baptiste Kléber, Louis Ramond de Carbonnières, François Christophe Kellermann, Marie Tussaud, Ludwig I of Bavaria, Charles Frédéric Gerhardt, Louis-Frédéric Schützenberger, Gustave Doré, Émile Waldteufel, René Beeh, Jean/Hans Arp, Charles Münch, Hans Bethe, Maurice Kriegel-Valrimont, Marcel Marceau, Tomi Ungerer, Elizabeth Sombart, Arsène Wenger, Petit and Matt Pokora.
In chronological order, notable residents of Strasbourg include: Johannes Gutenberg, Hans Baldung, Martin Bucer, John Calvin, Joachim Meyer, Johann Carolus, Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz, Klemens Wenzel von Metternich, Georg Büchner, Louis Pasteur, Ferdinand Braun, Albrecht Kossel, Georg Simmel, Albert Schweitzer, Otto Klemperer, Marc Bloch, Alberto Fujimori, Marjane Satrapi, Paul Ricœur and Jean-Marie Lehn.

Twin towns and sister cities
Strasbourg is twinned with:
 Boston, United States, since 1960
 Leicester, United Kingdom, since 1960
 Stuttgart, Germany, since 1962
 Dresden, Germany, since 1990
 Ramat Gan, Israel, since 1991Strasbourg has cooperative agreements with:
 Jacmel, Haiti, since 1991 (Coopération décentralisée)
 Fez, Morocco, since 1999 (Coopération décentralisée)
 Douala, Cameroon, since 2005 (Coopération décentralisée)
 Vologda, Russia, since 2009 (Coopération décentralisée)
 Oran, Algeria, since 2015 (Coopération décentralisée)
 Kairouan, Tunisia, since 2015 (Coopération décentralisée)
 Moscow, Russia, since 2016 (Coopération décentralisée)
 Kampala, Uganda, since 2018 (Coopération décentralisée)
 Kagoshima, Japan, since 2019 (Coopération décentralisée)

In popular culture
In film
The opening scenes of the 1977 Ridley Scott film The Duellists take place in Strasbourg in 1800.
The 2007 film In the City of Sylvia is set in Strasbourg.
Early February 2011, principal photography for Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows (2011) moved for two days to Strasbourg. Shooting took place on, around, and inside the Strasbourg Cathedral. The opening scene of the movie covers an assassination-bombing in the city.

In literature
One of the longest chapters of Laurence Sterne's novel Tristram Shandy (1759–1767), "Slawkenbergius' tale", takes place in Strasbourg.
An episode of Matthew Gregory Lewis' novel The Monk (1796) takes place in the forests then surrounding Strasbourg.
A part of the story in White Album 2 takes place in Strasbourg.

In music
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart called his Third violin concerto (1775) Straßburger Konzert because of one of its most prominent motives, based on a local, minuet-like dance that had already appeared as a tune in a symphony by Carl Ditters von Dittersdorf. It is not related to Mozart's ulterior stay in Strasbourg (1778), where he gave three concert performances on the piano.
Havergal Brian's Symphony No. 7 was inspired by passages in Goethe's memoirs recalling his time spent at Strasbourg University. The work ends with an orchestral bell sounding the note E, the strike-note of the bell of Strasbourg Cathedral.
British art-punk band The Rakes had a minor hit in 2005 with their song "Strasbourg". This song features witty lyrics with themes of espionage and vodka and includes a count of 'eins, zwei, drei, vier!!', even though Strasbourg's spoken language is French.
On their 1974 album Hamburger Concerto, Dutch progressive band Focus included a track called "La Cathédrale de Strasbourg", which included chimes from a cathedral-like bell.
Strasbourg pie, a dish containing foie gras, is mentioned in the finale of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical Cats.
Several works have specifically been dedicated to Strasbourg Cathedral, notably ad hoc compositions (masses, motets etc.) by Kapellmeisters Franz Xaver Richter and Ignaz Pleyel and, more recently, It is Finished by John Tavener.

Notes
Passage 5:
Maria Carrillo High School
Maria Carrillo High School is a public high school in Santa Rosa, California, United States. It is managed by the Santa Rosa City Schools district. It opened in 1996 and is in Santa Rosa's Rincon Valley neighborhood.

History
Maria Carrillo High School opened in 1997 and is named after María Ygnacia López de Carrillo.
In 2011, a YouTube video of Maria Carrillo student Kayla Kearney speaking at a Martin Luther King Jr. memorial assembly went viral after Kearney came out during her speech.Maria Carrillo High School (MCHS), a California Distinguished High School 2013, is one of five comprehensive high schools in the Santa Rosa City Schools district. MCHS currently enrolls 1,550 students in grades 9-12. The school received its first regular accreditation by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges in 1999.

Curriculum
Maria Carrillo follows curriculum as mandated by the Santa Rosa City Schools district. The school offers English classes, fine arts, mathematics, physical education, social sciences, and science classes. The latter include biology, chemistry, zoology, physics, and physical science.
The school has a culinary program, in which students learn cooking skills and compete for awards at local Santa Rosa restaurants.

Extracurricular activities
Sports
The school has a girls and boys basketball team. In November, 2011, the girls basketball coach resigned after being accused of bullying team members over the course of his career at the school. There is a track and field team, which is part of the North Coast Section competition field. There is also a baseball team, which, as of 2004, were the two-time North Coast Section champions.

Notable alumni
Madeline Jane "Maya" DiRado, Class of 2010, is an American former competitive swimmer who specialized in freestyle, butterfly, backstroke, and individual medley events. She won four medals in the 2016 Summer Olympics- two gold, one silver, and one bronze.
Kevin Jorgeson, Class of 2003, is an American mountain climber; he partnered with Tommy Caldwell to successfully free climb The Dawn Wall of El Capitan in Yosemite National Park.
Tristan Harris, Class of 2002, is the founder of the Center for Humane Technology, an organization focused on better aligning technology with the needs of humanity. Harris was featured on TED Talks and 60 Minutes.
Andrew Vaughn, Class of 2016, baseball player, winner of the 2018 Golden Spikes Award with the University of California, drafted third overall by the Chicago White Sox in the 2019 Major League Baseball Draft.
Maria Carrillo High School Alumni Hall of Fame.
Passage 6:
Alpena Power Company
Alpena Power Company is a public utility company that provides electricity to most of Alpena County, Michigan, as well as southeastern Presque Isle County and the village of Hillman, in Montmorency County. The headquarters are located in Alpena, Michigan. The company was founded in 1881 by George N. Fletcher.  
they produce 1-2% of power for the area using 3 hydro electric dams located on the thunder bay river.
Alpena Power has one 138KV interconnection with Consumers Energy/METC.

See also
Lists of public utilities

External links
Official website
Passage 7:
Mount View High School (Maine)
Maine School Administrative District 3 (MSAD 3) is an operating school district within Maine, covering the towns of Brooks, Freedom, Jackson, Knox, Liberty, Monroe, Montville, Thorndike, Troy, Unity and Waldo. MSAU District 3 students attend Mount View High School in Thorndike.
Passage 8:
Sno*Drift
Sno*Drift is a rally racing event held in Montmorency County, Michigan, annually, with headquarters in Atlanta, Michigan.  The event is currently the first Rally America National Rally Championship event of the season.  Currently the event is organized into three distinct rallies:  the national championship event covering both days of rallying, and two regional rally events each covering one of the two days.  Competitors may be entered in any or all of these events simultaneously.
Sno*Drift is a winter rally, run primarily on snow-covered gravel surface roads, and is usually held in January.  The winners of the 2009 Sno*Drift Rally were Travis Pastrana and Christian Edstrom of Maryland, driving a Subaru Impreza WRX STI. This team also won the event in 2007, but in 2008, they were leading but did not finish the event as they encountered a deer on the next to last stage.

History
A national event in the 1970s and 1980s
Sno*Drift was first held in 1973 as a National event as part of the SCCA Performance Rally series near Grayling, Michigan.  Chaired by Tim Steiner, the event was won by the team of Erhard Dahm and John Campbell driving a Jeep Wagoneer, with Gene Henderson and Ken Pogue finished 2nd in a similar vehicle.  Scott Harvey and Tom King placed third in a Dodge Colt.  Of the 38 teams starting the event, 24 finished.
The event was repeated the next year with Henderson and Pogue rising to win over Dahm with new co-driver Tom Grimshaw.  Third was again captured by Harvey, who also had a new co-driver (Wayne Zitkus).  The final Sno*Drift of the period was held in 1975, and was won by Harvey and Zitkus, this time with a Dodge Ramcharger, while second place was claimed by Tom Tolles and Virginia Reese in a Volvo 122S and third by Bob Hourihan and Doug Shepherd, also in a Volvo 122S.
Sno*Drift was not held again until 1979 when it again became a national event for the SCCA.  This running saw 48 teams enter, of whom 31 finished.  Taisto Heinonen and Tom Burgess won the event in a Toyota Celica GT while Doug Leverton and Greg Wilkinson placed second in their Datsun 510 and Scott Harvey and Randy Graves finished third in a Dodge Aspen.
46 teams entered the 1980 event, while only 24 finished.  Overall winners were Guy Light and Jim Brandt in a Jeep CJ-7, followed by John Buffum and Doug Shepherd in a Triumph TR7 and by Dick Turner and Tom Grimshaw in an International Scout.  1980's winner in the production class was the team of Erik Zenz and Brian Berg in a Saab 99L followed by Curt Spicer and Tom Hudak, also in a Saab 99, and by Roger Suppes and Woody Crutchfield in a Toyota Corolla.
Sno*Drift was held in 1981 with 49 teams entering and 39 finishing.  Jean Paul Perusse and Jim Brandt took the overall win in their Peugeot 504, while second place was claimed by Randy Black and Fred Baker in a Datsun 510, and third by Bjorn Anderson and Randy Weiser in a Toyota Celica.  Niall Leslie and Doug Martin captured the 1981 production class win in a Datsun 200 SX, with second in class going to Gene Henderson and Jim Kloosterman, and third to Guy Light and Jim Brandt, with both teams driving a pair of AMC Eagle SX/4 coupes.
Sno*Drift saw 50 entries in 1982 with 31 finishing the rally.  John Buffum and Tom Grimshaw took first with an Audi Quattro, with second going to Rod Millen and John Bellefleur in a Mazda RX-7 and third to Doug Shepherd and Jim Roller in a Colt.  The production class winners were Guy Light and Jim Brandt in an Oldsmobile Omega, followed by Gene Henderson and Jim Kloosterman in their AMC Eagle SX/4, and Erik Zenz and Lawson Smith in a Saab 99 EMS.
1983, marking the eighth running of the event was also the last of the period run as a national event.  40 teams entered and 29 finished, with Rod Millen and Michael Parris winning overall in their RX-7, with Mark Klos and Andrew Klos taking second in a Jeep C101 and Don Jankowski and Karen Landau finishing third in a Dodge Charger.  The Production class was led by a pair of Chargers, the first driven by Cal Landau and Craig Marr, and the second by Dan Coughnour and Eric Marcus with Gene Henderson and Jim Kloosterman finishing third in their AMC Eagle SX/4.

Years as a non-national event
Sno*Drift was run in 1984, but was downgraded from a national event to a coefficient 2 divisional event of the, with 28 entries and 20 finishers.  The event was held in December as part of the 1985 divisional series.  Winners were Tom Bell and Mary Jo Czyzio in a Datsun 510, with second going to Erik Zenz and Steve Nowicki in a Saab 99 and third place awarded to Robert Parks and Jerry Tobin in an Alfa Romeo GTV.
Sno*Drift was run again in 1991, but as a time-speed-distance rally.  14 teams took part, with Gene Henderson and Jim Mickle winning in a BMW 325ix.  This team won again in 1992 when the event was repeated.

Restoration as a national event in the 1990s
After a long period of dormancy, Sno*Drift was run again as national event for the SCCA, although not as a full event, but instead at 60%, while also counting as coefficient 3 divisional event.  In 1997, it was held in Montmorency County, Michigan, with 27 entries and 21 finishers.  Overall winners were Frank Sprongl and Dan Sprongl in an Audi S2, followed by Steve Gingras and Bill Westrick and by Cal Landau and Eric Marcus, both in the Mitsubishi Eclipse.  Group 5 winners were Mike Villemure and Rene Villemure driving a Volkswagen Beetle, followed by Mike Hurst and Lynn Dillon driving a Pontiac Sunbird and by Gail Truess and Paul Truess in a Chevrolet Citation.  Group 2 winners were Gerald Sweet and Stuart Spark in a Saab 99 EMS, followed by Wayne Prochaska and Annette Prochaska in a Volkswagen Golf and Art Burmeister and Randy Moore in a Volkswagen GTI.  The Production GT class win went to Steve Gingras and Bill Westrick in a Mitsubishi Eclipse followed by another Eclipse driven by Cal Landau and Eric Marcus and an Eagle Talon piloted by Brian Pepp and Dean Rushford.  The Production class was won by a Ford Escort GT driven by Tad Ohtake and Bob Martin followed by a Honda Civic driven by Jay Kowalik and Jeff Wheeler.  It was intended to run the event in 1998, although this was cancelled due to extreme weather conditions.
1999 saw Sno*Drift run again as a 60% national event and coefficient 3 divisional event.  Overall victory went to Tom Ottey and Pam McGarvey in a Mazda 323 GTX, followed up by Jon Kemp and Brian Maxwell in an Audi 4000 Quattro and by Peter Lahm and Matt Chester in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evo IV.  Group 5 was won by Henry Krolikowski and Cindy Krolikowski in a Dodge Shadow GT, followed by Mark Utecht and Diane Sargent in a Dodge Omni and by Jeremy Butts and Peter Jacobs in a Plymouth Arrow.  Group 2 winners were Wayne and Annette Prochaska in a Volkswagen Golf followed by David S. Cizmas and David L. Cizmas in a Suzuki Swift and by Art Burmeister and Randy Moore in their GTI.  Ottey and McGarvey also took the Proguction GT victory, with Chris Czyzio and Eric Carlson in second and Cal Landau and Eric Marcus in third, both in Eclipses.  Production class victory went to a pair of Volkswagen GTIs, the first driven by Karl Scheible and Gail McGuire, and the second by Brian Vinson and Richard Beels.  Third was captured by a Plymouth Neon ACR piloted by Evan Moen and Ronald Moen.

Becoming a full national event
2000 marked Sno*Drift's promotion to a full national event.  The national event, part of the SCCA's ProRally series, would run all of the stages that comprised the rally.  In addition, there would be two SCCA ClubRally events.  The first, titled simply Sno, covered the first portion of the rally's stages, and was considered a coefficient 2 club rally, while the second, entitled Drift, covered the remaining stages and was scored as a coefficient 3 club rally.  Competitors could enter any or all of these rallies and score points the appropriate series.  the 2000 and 2001 event results were as follows (results are listed in the format - driver / co-driver / vehicle):

2000 Sno*Drift national rally (41 entrants/28 finishers)
Overall
1. Paul Choiniere / Jeff Becker / Hyundai Tiburon
2. Karl Scheible / Russ Hughes / Mitsubishi Lancer
3. Pete Lahm / Matt Chester / Mitsubishi Lancer Evo IV
Group N
1. Karl Scheible / Russ Hughes / Mitsubishi Lancer
Group 5
1. Mark Utecht / Brenda Corneliusen / Dodge Omni
2. Mike Hurst / Rob Bohn / Pontiac Sunbird
3. Bryan Hourt / Peter Cardimen / Honda Civic
Group 2
1. Douglas Davenport / Lea Hoffa / Volkswagen Golf
Production GT
1. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Steve Gingras / Bill Westrick / Eagle Talon
Production
1. Brian Vinson / Luke Stuart / Volkswagen GTI
2. Evan Moen / Kurt Winkelman / Chrysler Neon
2000 Sno Club Coefficient 2 Rally (30 entrants; 20 finishers)
Overall
1. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Mark Utecht / Brenda Corneliusen / Dodge Omni
3. Sylvester Stepniewski / Adam Pelc / Audi Quattro
Group 5
1. Mark Utecht / Brenda Corneliusen / Dodge Omni
2. Colin McCleery / Jeff Secor / Volkswagen GTI
3. Rene Villemure / Mike Villemure / Volkswagen Beetle
Group 2
1. Douglas Davenport / Lea Hoffa / Volkswagen Golf
2. Charles Langan / Hughie Langan / Ford Escort
Production GT
1. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Scott Harvey, Jr. / Bob Martin / Eagle Talon
Production
1. Jouni Pohjolainen / John Matikainen / Nissan NX 200
2. Ryan Brooks / Shanti Traskowski / Acura Integra
2000 Drift Club Coefficient 3 Rally
1. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Mark Utecht / Brenda Corneliusen / Dodge Omni
3. Sylvester Stepniewski / Adam Pelc / Audi Quattro
Group 5
1. Mark Utecht / Brenda Corneliusen / Dodge Omni
2. Rene Villemure / Mike Villemure / Volkswagen Beetle
3. Colin McCleery / Jeff Secor / Volkswagen GTI
Group 2
1. Douglas Davenport / Lea Hoffa / Volkswagen Golf
2. Joshua Scott / Roxanne Slancik / Volkswagen GTI
3. Mark Brown / Ole Holter / Toyota Corolla
Production GT
1. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Scott Harvey, Jr. / Bob Martin / Eagle Talon
Production
1. Jouni Pohjolainen / John Matikainen / Nissan NX 200
2. Tom Young / Jim LeBeau / Dodge Neon ACR
3. Ryan Brooks / Shanti Traskowski / Acura Integra
2001 Sno*Drift National Rally
Overall
1. Paul Choiniere / Jeff Becker / Hyundai Tiburon
2. Mark Lovell / Steve Turvey / Subaru WRX STi
3. Seamus Burke / Frank Cunningham / Mitsubishi Lancer Evo IV
Group N
1. Mark Lovell / Steve Turvey / Subaru WRX STi
2. Karl Scheible / Brian Maxwell / Subaru Impreza
3. Henry Krolikowski / Cindy Krolikowski / Subaru WRX STi
Group 5
1. Tad Ohtake / Bob Martin / Ford Escort
2. Mike Hurst / Rob Bohn / Pontiac Sunbird
3. Colin McCleery / Jeff Secor / Volkswagen GTI
Group 2
1. Eric Burmeister / Mark Buskirk / Volkswagen GTI
2. Matthew Johnson / Eric Adams / Volkswagen GTI
3. Thomas Lawless / Brendan Lawless / Honda Civic
Production GT
1. Mark Utecht / Brenda Lewis / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Gail Truess / Pattie Hughes-Mayer / Mazda 323 GTX
3. Bruce Perry / Phil Barnes / Eagle Talon
Production
1. Scott Carlborn / Dale Ewald / Jeep Comanche
2. Tom Young / Jim LeBeau / Dodge Neon ACR
2001 Sno Club Coefficient 2 Rally (32 entries; 26 finishers)
Overall
1. Mark Utecht / Brenda Lewis / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Bruce Perry / Phil Barnes / Eagle Talon
3. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
Group 5
1. Mike Hurst / Rob Bohn / Pontiac Sunbird
2. Colin McCleery / Jeff Secor / Volkswagen GTI
3. Wiktor Biegalski / Andy Malikowski / Mitsubishi Eclipse
Group 2
1. Thomas Lawless / Brendan Lawless / Honda Civic
2. Phil Smith / Dallas Smith / MGB-GT
3. Brad Hawkins / Adrian Wintle / Volkswagen Golf GT
Production GT
1. Mark Utecht / Brenda Lewis / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Bruce Perry / Phil Barnes / Eagle Talon
3. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
Production
1. Jim Cox / Kaarii Louise Cox / Chevrolet S-10
2. Ryan Brooks / Randy Berdan / Acura Integra
2001 Drift Club Coefficient 2 Rally (32 entries; 26 finishers)
Overall
1. Mark Utecht / Brenda Lewis / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Bruce Perry / Phil Barnes / Eagle Talon
3. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
Group 5
1. Mike Hurst / Rob Bohn / Pontiac Sunbird
2. Colin McCleery / Jeff Secor / Volkswagen GTI
3. Jerry Brownell / Jim Windsor / Chevrolet Citation
Group 2
1. Thomas Lawless / Brendan Lawless / Honda Civic
2. Phil Smith / Dallas Smith / MGB-GT
3. Phil Schmidt / Steve Irwin / Toyota MR2
Production GT
1. Mark Utecht / Brenda Lewis / Mitsubishi Eclipse
2. Bruce Perry / Phil Barnes / Eagle Talon
3. Chris Czyzio / Eric Carlson / Mitsubishi Eclipse
Production
1. Jim Cox / Kaarii Louise Cox / Chevrolet S-10
2. Ryan Brooks / Randy Berdan / Acura Integra
3. William Tremmel / Peter Coleman / Volkswagen GTI
2002 Sno*Drift national rally (46 starters; 34 finishers)
Overall
1. Frank Sprongl / Dan Sprongl / Hyundai Tiburon
2. Mark Lovell / Steve Turvey / Subaru WRX
3. Mark Higgins / Michael Gibson / Hyundai Tiburon
Group N
1. Mark Utecht / Jeff Secor / Subaru WRX
2. Henry Krolikowski / Cindy Krolikowski / Subaru WRX STi
3. Mark Cox / Jim Gill / Mitsubishi Evo VI

Expansion to a two-day event
In 2002, Sno*Drift was expanded to cover two days, with the Sno club rally covering day one and Drift on day two.  In 2003, the event was awarded the ProRally of the Year title by the SCCA.  The 2004 event was marked by heavy snow.

Transition to Rally America
In 2005, the SCCA transferred organization and marketing of ProRally and ClubRally to Rally America, Inc., with Sno*Drift as the first event of the 2005 calendar, and thus the first event to take place under Rally America organization.

Summary of events
Sno*Drift 1973:  SCCA national performance rally
Sno*Drift 1974:  SCCA national performance rally
Sno*Drift 1975:  SCCA national performance rally
Sno*Drift 1979:  SCCA national performance rally
Sno*Drift 1980:  SCCA national performance rally
Sno*Drift 1981:  SCCA national performance rally
Sno*Drift 1982:  SCCA national performance rally
Sno*Drift 1983:  SCCA national performance rally
Sno*Drift 1984:  SCCA divisional coefficient 2 rally
Sno*Drift 1991:  SCCA regional time-speed-distance rally
Sno*Drift 1992:  SCCA regional time-speed-distance rally
Sno*Drift 1997:  SCCA 60% national and divisional coefficient 3 rally
Sno*Drift 1999:  SCCA 60% national and divisional coefficient 3 rally
Sno*Drift 2000:  SCCA ProRally national rally
Sno 2000:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 2 rally
Drift 2000:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 3 rally
Sno*Drift 2001:  SCCA ProRally national rally
Sno 2001:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 2 rally
Drift 2001:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 3 rally
Sno*Drift 2002:  SCCA ProRally national rally
Sno 2002:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 2 rally
Drift 2002:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 3 rally
Sno*Drift 2003:  SCCA ProRally national rally
Sno 2003:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 2 rally
Drift 2003:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 3 rally
Sno*Drift 2004:  SCCA ProRally national rally
Sno 2004:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 2 rally
Drift 2004:  SCCA ClubRally coefficient 3 rally
Sno*Drift 2005:  Rally America National Rally Championship event
Sno 2005:  Rally America Central Regional Rally (coefficient 2)
Drift 2005:  Rally America Central Regional Rally (coefficient 3)
Sno*Drift 2006:  Rally America National Rally Championship event
Sno 2006:  Rally America Central Regional Rally (coefficient 2)
Drift 2006:  Rally America Central Regional Rally (coefficient 3)

See also
Rally America
Rallying
Passage 9:
Redan High School
Redan High School is a public secondary school of the DeKalb County School District located in Redan, Georgia.
Redan was established in 1976 by the DeKalb County School District. The school's mascot is the Raider. Both Redan High School and its "twin," Stone Mountain High School, were built without any main windows on their exteriors (except for in the main common area). The windowless construction was for energy-saving purposes during the "energy crunch" of the mid-to-late 1970s.
As part of the DeKalb County School District, the school is accredited through AdvancED through 2022.

Campus
The school is in Redan, a census-designated place in unincorporated DeKalb County, Georgia, United States. The school is south of the city of Stone Mountain and has a Stone Mountain mailing address.

Marching band
The Redan High School "Blue Thunder" Marching Band is one of the largest high school marching bands in the state of Georgia and in the southeast. The band has won the national VH1 Save the Music Battle of the Bands twice, the only high school band invited to perform in this competition to do so.The band performs consistently highly in both marching band and concert band competitions, and was considered for inclusion in the inaugural parade of President Barack Obama in January 2009.
The band was featured in the blockbuster movie Drumline and the Disneyland Christmas parade, and shot a live commercial while performing at the Atlanta Football Classic. The band has recorded live commercials for several Fortune 500 companies and featured on releases by a number of recording artists. In November 2009, the Marching Blue Thunder was asked to perform in the movie Stomp the Yard 2: Homecoming, released in 2010.
The band has performed for many college and university halftime shows, including the Florida A&M Homecoming Celebration, Jackson State University, Bethune-Cookman University, Norfolk State University, and Tennessee State University, as well as major international events including the Chinese Festival in Beijing, China.
Among traditional marching bands, the Marching Blue Thunder is currently ranked number two in the United States and in the Southeast, number one in the South, and the number one ranked "High Stepping" high school marching band in Georgia. The band earns thousands of dollars annually in scholarship and tuition funds.

Athletics
The Redan baseball program has a history of producing competitive athletes that reach elite levels of play. In 2013, the Raiders baseball program won the 4A State Championship. This makes the Raiders the first team made up of only African Americans to win a baseball state championship in the state.
The school's Lady Raiders basketball team won the 5A State Championship in 2009 and 2014.

Feeder schools
The following elementary and middle schools feed into Redan High School:

Elementary
Eldridge Miller Elementary School
Shadow Rock Elementary School
Panola Way Elementary School (partial, about 15%)
Redan Elementary School (partial, about 45%)
Woodridge Elementary School

Middle
Redan Middle School
Freedom Middle School
Miller Grove Middle School

Notable alumni
La La Anthony - disc jockey, television personality, actress
Domonic Brown - former professional baseball player (Philadelphia Phillies)
Charles W. "Chuck" Bryant - co-host of Stuff You Should Know
Kevin Butler - former professional football player (Chicago Bears, Arizona Cardinals)
Urso Chappell - graphic designer, writer, and World's Fair historian
Cyhi the Prynce - rapper
Danger Mouse - Grammy Award-winning producer
Chris Gardocki - former college and professional football player (Clemson Tigers, Chicago Bears, Indianapolis Colts, Cleveland Browns, Pittsburgh Steelers)
TJ Hassan - actor
Milt Hill -  former professional baseball player (Cincinnati Reds, Atlanta Braves, Seattle Mariners)
Jagged Edge - R&B group
Wally Joyner - former professional baseball player (California Angels, Kansas City Royals, San Diego Padres, Atlanta Braves); former assistant hitting coach for the Philadelphia Phillies and Detroit Tigers
Terance Mathis - former professional football player (New York Jets, Atlanta Falcons, Pittsburgh Steelers)
Chris Nelson - former professional baseball player (Colorado Rockies, New York Yankees, Los Angeles Angels, San Diego Padres)
Brandon Phillips - professional baseball player (Cleveland Indians, Cincinnati Reds)
Silentó - rapper
Armond Smith - former professional football player (Carolina Panthers, Cleveland Browns)
Everett Stull - former professional baseball player (Montreal Expos, Atlanta Braves, Milwaukee Brewers)
Swizz Beats - Grammy Award-winning producer
Natasha Trethewey, United States Poet Laureate 2012–2014, awarded the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry; Poet Laureate of Mississippi