Passage 1:
Tarnów Voivodeship
Tarnów Voivodeship (Polish: województwo tarnowskie) was a unit of administrative division and local government in Poland in years 1975–1998, superseded by a much larger Lesser Poland Voivodeship. Its capital city was Tarnów. Located in southeastern part of the country, its area was 4,151 km2. (which was 1.3% of the total area of Poland). In 1975 the population was 577,900, in 1998 it grew to 700,800.
Tarnów (121 494)
Dębica (49 107)
Bochnia (29 887)
Brzesko (17 859)
Dąbrowa Tarnowska (11 178)

See also
Voivodeships of Poland
Passage 2:
Guyana
Guyana ( (listen) or  (listen)), officially the Co‑operative Republic of Guyana, is a country on the northern mainland of South America. Guyana is an indigenous word which means "Land of Many Waters". The capital city is Georgetown. Guyana is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the north, Brazil to the south and southwest, Venezuela to the west, and Suriname to the east. With 215,000 km2 (83,000 sq mi), Guyana is the third-smallest sovereign state by area in mainland South America after Uruguay and Suriname, and is the second-least populous sovereign state in South America after Suriname; it is also one of the least densely populated countries on Earth. It has a wide variety of natural habitats and a very high biodiversity.
The region known as "the Guianas" consists of the large shield landmass north of the Amazon River and east of the Orinoco River known as the "land of many waters". Nine indigenous tribes reside in Guyana: the Wai Wai, Macushi, Patamona, Lokono, Kalina, Wapishana, Pemon, Akawaio and Warao. Historically dominated by the Lokono and Kalina tribes, Guyana was colonised by the Dutch before coming under British control in the late 18th century. It was governed as British Guiana, with a mostly plantation-style economy until the 1950s. It gained independence in 1966, and officially became a republic within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1970. The legacy of British rule is reflected in the country's political administration and diverse population, which includes Indian, African, Indigenous, Chinese, Portuguese, other European, and various multiracial groups. In 2017, 41% of the population of Guyana lived below the poverty line.Guyana is the only South American nation in which English is the official language. However, the majority of the population speak Guyanese Creole, an English-based creole language, as a first language. Guyana is part of the Anglophone Caribbean. It is part of the mainland Caribbean region maintaining strong cultural, historical, and political ties with other Caribbean countries as well as serving as the headquarters for the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). In 2008, the country joined the Union of South American Nations as a founding member.
Guyana's economy has been undergoing a transformation since the discovery of crude oil in 2015 and commercial drilling in 2019, being one of the few economies to grow despite the pandemic in 2020 at 49% GDP growth through the year, making it, by some accounts, currently the world's fastest-growing economy. Due to Guyana's small population and as much as 11 billion barrels in oil reserves, the country is on course to become one of the largest per capita oil producers in the world by 2030. The discovery of over 11 billion barrels of oil reserves off the coast of Guyana in the last five years is the largest addition to global oil reserves in the last 50 years. Guyana is now ranked as having the fourth-highest GDP per capita in the Americas after the United States, Canada, and The Bahamas, and has been one of the countries with the most improvement in Human Development Index ranking since 2015.

Etymology
The name "Guyana" derives from Guiana, an earlier name for a larger region that included the areas now called Guyana (British Guiana), Suriname (Dutch Guiana), French Guiana, the Guayana Region in Venezuela (Spanish Guyana), and Amapá in Brazil (Portuguese Guiana). According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the name "Guyana" comes from an indigenous Amerindian language and means "land of many waters". The word Co‑operative in the official name refers to co-operative socialism.

History
Before colonisation
Nine indigenous tribes reside in Guyana: the Wai Wai; Macushi; Patamona; Lokono; Kalina; Wapishana; Pemon; Akawaio; and Warao.Historically, the Lokono and Kalina tribes dominated Guyana.

Colonial period
Although Christopher Columbus was the first European to sight Guyana during his third voyage (in 1498), and Sir Walter Raleigh wrote an account in 1596, the Dutch were the first Europeans to establish colonies: Pomeroon (1581), Essequibo (1616), Berbice (1627), and Demerara (1752). After the British assumed control in 1796, the Dutch formally ceded the area in 1814.In 1831, the united colonies of Demerara-Essequibo and separate colony of Berbice together became a single British colony known as British Guiana.

Since its independence in 1824, Venezuela has claimed the area of land to the west of the Essequibo River. Simón Bolívar wrote to the British government warning against the Berbice and Demerara settlers settling on land which the Venezuelans, as assumed heirs of Spanish claims on the area dating to the 16th century, claimed was theirs. In 1899, an international tribunal ruled that the land belonged to Great Britain. The British territorial claim stemmed from Dutch involvement and colonisation of the area also dating to the 16th century, which was ceded to the British.

Independence
Guyana achieved independence from the United Kingdom as a dominion on 26 May 1966 and became a republic on 23 February 1970, remaining a member of the Commonwealth. Shortly after independence, Venezuela began to take diplomatic, economic and military action against Guyana in order to enforce its territorial claim to the Guayana Esequiba. The US State Department and the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), along with the British government, also played a strong role in influencing political control in Guyana during this time. The American government supported Forbes Burnham during the early years of independence because Cheddi Jagan was identified as a Marxist. They provided secret financial support and political campaign advice to Burnham's People's National Congress, to the detriment of the Jagan-led People's Progressive Party, which was mostly supported by Guyanese of Indian background.Guyana was elected twice as member of the UN Security Council in 1975–76 and later 1982–83.
In 1978, a total of 918 people died at the Jonestown mass murder-suicide led by cult leader Jim Jones.In May 2008, President Bharrat Jagdeo was a signatory to the UNASUR Constitutive Treaty of the Union of South American Nations. The Guyanese government officially ratified the treaty in 2010.In March 2020, President David A. Granger narrowly lost the snap elections, following Granger's government loss of a vote of no confidence back in 2018. Granger refused to accept the results, but eventually five months later, Irfaan Ali of the People's Progressive Party/Civic was sworn in as the new president because of allegations of fraud and irregularities.

Geography
The territory controlled by Guyana lies between latitudes 1° and 9°N, and longitudes 56° and 62°W; it is one of the world's most sparsely populated countries.
The country can be divided into five natural regions: a narrow and fertile marshy plain along the Atlantic coast (low coastal plain) where most of the population lives; a white sand belt further inland (hilly sand and clay region), containing most of Guyana's mineral deposits; the dense rain forests (Forested Highland Region) in the southern part of the country; the drier savannah areas in the south-west; and the smallest interior lowlands (interior savannah) consisting mostly of mountains that gradually rise to the Brazilian border.
Some of Guyana's highest mountains are Mount Ayanganna (2,042 m or 6,699 ft), Monte Caburaí (1,465 m or 4,806 ft) and Mount Roraima (2,772 m or 9,094 ft – the highest mountain in Guyana) on the Brazil-Guyana-Venezuela tripoint border, part of the Pakaraima range. Mount Roraima and Guyana's table-top mountains (tepuis) are said to have been the inspiration for Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's 1912 novel The Lost World. There are also many volcanic escarpments and waterfalls, including Kaieteur Falls which is believed to be the largest single-drop waterfall in the world by volume. North of the Rupununi River lies the Rupununi savannah, south of which lie the Kanuku Mountains.
The four longest rivers are the Essequibo at 1,010 km (628 mi) long, the Courentyne River at 724 km (450 mi), the Berbice at 595 km (370 mi), and the Demerara at 346 km (215 mi). The Courentyne river forms the border with Suriname. At the mouth of the Essequibo are several large islands, including the 145 km (90 mi) wide Shell Beach along the northwest coast, which is also a major breeding area for sea turtles (mainly leatherbacks) and other wildlife.
The climate is tropical and generally hot and humid, though moderated by northeast trade winds along the coast. There are two rainy seasons, the first from May to mid-August, the second from mid-November to mid-January.
Guyana has one of the largest unspoiled rainforests in South America, some parts of which are almost inaccessible by humans. The rich natural history of Guyana was described by early explorers Sir Walter Raleigh and Charles Waterton and later by naturalists Sir David Attenborough and Gerald Durrell. In 2008, the BBC broadcast a three-part programme called Lost Land of the Jaguar which highlighted the huge diversity of wildlife, including undiscovered species and rare species such as the giant otter and harpy eagle.
In 2012, Guyana received a $45 million reward from Norway for its rainforest protection efforts. This stems from a 2009 agreement between the nations for a total of $250 million for protecting and maintaining the natural habitat. Thus far, the country has received $115 million of the total grant.

Biodiversity and conservation
Guyana is home to more than 900 species of birds; 225 species of mammals; 880 species of reptiles and more than 6,500 different species of plants. Among these wildlife categories the most notably famous are the Arapaima, which is the world's largest scaled freshwater fish; the giant anteater, the largest anteater; the giant otter, the world's largest and rarest river otter; and the cock-of-the-rock (Rupicola rupicola).

The following habitats have been categorised for Guyana: coastal, marine, littoral, estuarine palustrine, mangrove, riverine, lacustrine, swamp, savanna, white sand forest, brown sand forest, montane, cloud forest, moist lowland and dry evergreen scrub forests (NBAP, 1999). About 14 areas of biological interest have been identified as possible hotspots for a National Protected Area System.
More than 80% of Guyana is still covered by forests, which also contain the world's rarest orchids, ranging from dry evergreen and seasonal forests to montane and lowland evergreen rain forests. These forests are home to more than a thousand species of trees. Guyana's tropical climate, unique geology, and relatively undisturbed ecosystems support extensive areas of species-rich rain forests and natural habitats with high levels of endemism. There are about 8000 species of plants in Guyana, half of which are found nowhere else.
Guyana has one of the highest levels of biodiversity in the world. With 1,168 vertebrate species and 814 bird species, it boasts one of the richest mammalian fauna assemblages of any comparably sized area in the world. Guyana is home to six ecoregions: Guayanan Highlands moist forests, Guianan moist forests, Orinoco Delta swamp forests, Tepuis, Guianan savanna, and Guianan mangroves. The Guiana Shield region is little known and extremely rich biologically. Unlike other areas of South America, over 70% of the natural habitat remains pristine. Guyana ranks third in the world with a 2019 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 9.58/10.The rich natural history of British Guiana was described by early explorers Sir Walter Raleigh and Charles Waterton and later by naturalists Sir David Attenborough and Gerald Durrell.
Southern Guyana is host to some of the most pristine expanses of evergreen forests in the northern part of South America. Most of the forests found are tall, evergreen hill-land and lower montane forests, with large expanses of flooded forest along major rivers. Thanks to the very low human population density of the area, most of these forests are still intact. The Smithsonian Institution has identified nearly 2,700 species of plants from this region, representing 239 distinct families, and there are certainly additional species still to be recorded. The diversity of plants supports diverse animal life, recently documented by a biological survey organised by Conservation International. The reportedly clean, unpolluted waters of the Essequibo watershed support a remarkable diversity of fish and aquatic invertebrates, and are home to giant otters, capybaras, and several species of caimans.
On land, large mammals, such as jaguars, tapirs, bush dogs, giant anteaters, and saki monkeys are still common. Over 800 species of birds have been reported from the region, and the reptile and amphibian faunas are similarly rich.
In February 2004, the Government of Guyana issued a title to more than 4,000 km2 (1×10^6 acres) of land in the Konashen Indigenous District as the Kanashen Community-Owned Conservation Area, managed by the Wai Wai, and the world's largest community-owned conservation Area. The Iwokrama International Centre for Rain Forest Conservation and Development was also created for the protection and sustainable use of the Iwokrama forest area. Since 2009, Guyana and Norway have collaborated to promote green development in Guyana while keeping deforestation at low levels

Economy
The main economic activities in Guyana are agriculture (rice and Demerara sugar), bauxite and gold mining, timber, seafood, minerals, crude oil and natural gas.
The discovery of major crude oil reserves off the Atlantic coast has since made a large impact on Guyana's GDP since drilling began in 2019. GDP grew sharply (43%) through the COVID-19 pandemic year of 2020, and is anticipated to continue at a high level in 2021 (estimated at 20%). The non-oil sectors contracted as public health measures were in place to control the virus spread; the growth of GDP rests on the oil sector for these two years.Preservation of Guyana's pristine forests has been a key component for receiving international aid through REDD programs.

Summary
GDP: US$4.121 billion ($5,252 per capita, 2019 est.)
GDP growth rate: 86.7% (2020)
Inflation: 12.3%
Unemployment: 21.5% (2017)
Arable land: 2%
Labour force: 324,943 (2019)
Agricultural produce: sugar, rice, vegetable oils, beef, pork, poultry, dairy products, fish, shrimp
Industrial production: bauxite, sugar, rice milling, timber, textiles, gold mining
Exports: US$1.439 billion; Canada 24.9%, US 16.5%, Panama 9.6%, UK 7.7%, Jamaica 5.1%, Trinidad and Tobago 5% (2017)
Imports: US$1.626 billion; Trinidad and Tobago 27.5%, US 26.5%, China 8.9%, Suriname 6.1% (2017)

History
The earliest residents of Guyana, the Amerindians of various tribes, employed a variety of agricultural practices for subsistence living but also had extensive networks of trade, dealing in items such as blow pipes, curare, cassava graters, and other essentials. These trade networks were important even at the time of the earliest European contact, and Dutch traders were inclined to gift the local peoples in order to maintain successful settlements.After the initial rush to find gold in the New World waned, the Dutch found the climate to be suitable for growing sugar cane, converting large tracts of the Guyanese coast into plantations and supplying with labour from the Atlantic slave trade. The country and economy were run by a small European planter elite which continued on when the colonies of the territory were merged and the land was given over to the British Empire in 1814. Upon emancipation in 1838, almost all of the former slaves abandoned the plantations, and Indians were brought to the country under indenture contracts from 1838 until the end of the system in 1917.The production of balatá (natural latex) was once a big business in Guyana. Most of the balata bleeding in Guyana took place in the foothills of the Kanuku Mountains in the Rupununi savannah. Early exploitation also took place in the North West District, but most of the trees in the area were destroyed by illicit bleeding methods that involved cutting down the trees rather than making incisions in them. Uses of balatá included the making of cricket balls, temporary dental fillings, and the crafting of figurines and other decorative items (particularly by the Macushi people).
When the country gained independence from British rule, a policy of nationalisation was enacted by Forbes Burnham to address the inequities that were established by plantation-based colonial rule. All large scale industries such as foreign-owned bauxite mining (Reynolds Metals and Rio Tinto's Alcan) and sugar (GuySuCo) operations were taken over by the government. However, the economy under nationalisation was plagued by problems; political instability leading to an exodus of skilled labour, inexperienced management, aging infrastructure. Poor international market conditions also expanded the country's debt.The Guyanese economy rebounded slightly and exhibited moderate economic growth after 1999, due to expansion in the agricultural and mining sectors, a more favourable atmosphere for business initiatives, a more realistic exchange rate, fairly low inflation, and the continued support of international organisations. Guyana held huge amounts of debt which have been written off through various international agencies. In 2003 Guyana qualified for US$329 million of debt relief, in addition to the US$256 million from the original World Bank plan for assisting heavily indebted poor countries in 1999. The Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative in 2006/7 wrote off about US$611 million of Guyana's debt by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. In 2006, Japan finalised its bilateral debt cancellation agreement, in 2007, US$15 million was written off by China and in 2008, Venezuela cancelled US$12.5 million.In 2008, the economy witnessed a 3% increase in growth amid the global economic crisis; it grew 5.4% in 2011 and 3.7% in 2012. IMF projected economic growth to be 53% in 2020 following the completion of the first off-shore oil project. Actual growth in GDP in 2020 was 43%; reports in April 2021 anticipate 20% growth for 2021.

Tax policy
The government initiated a major overhaul of the tax code in early 2007. A Value Added Tax (VAT) replaced six different taxes. Prior to the implementation of the VAT, it had been relatively easy to evade sales tax, and many businesses were in violation of tax code. Many businesses opposed VAT introduction because of the extra paperwork required; however, the Government has remained firm on the VAT. Replacing several taxes with one flat tax rate, it will also be easier for government auditors to spot embezzlement. This was prevalent under the former PPP/C government who authorised the VAT to be equal to 50% of the value of the good.

Organizations
Major private sector organisations include the Private Sector Commission (PSC) and the Georgetown Chamber of Commerce & Industry (GCCI);

Demographics
The chief majority (about 90%) of Guyana's 744,000 population lives along a narrow coastal strip which ranges from a width of 16 to 64 km (10 to 40 mi) inland and which makes up approximately only 10% of the nation's total land area.The present population of Guyana is racially and ethnically heterogeneous, with ethnic groups originating from India, Africa, Europe and China, as well as indigenous or aboriginal peoples. Despite their diverse ethnic backgrounds, these groups share two common languages: English and Guyanese English Creole.
The largest ethnic group is the Indo-Guyanese (also known as East Indians), the descendants of indentured labourers from India who make up 43.5% of the population, according to the 2002 census. They are followed by the Afro-Guyanese, the descendants of enslaved people imported from Africa, who constitute 30.2%. The Guyanese of mixed heritage make up 16.7%, while the indigenous peoples (known locally as Amerindians) make up 9.1%. The indigenous groups include the Arawaks, the Wai Wai, the Caribs, the Akawaio, the Arecuna, the Patamona, the Wapixana, the Macushi, and the Warao. The two largest groups, the Indo-Guyanese and Afro-Guyanese, have experienced some racial tension.The Afro-Guyanese population mainly descend from West African ethnicities such as the Ashanti from Ghana, the Yoruba from Southwest Nigeria, the Ibo from South-Eastern Nigeria, and the Mandingo from Senegal.
Most Indo-Guyanese are descended from indentured labourers who migrated from North India, especially the Bhojpur and Awadh regions of the Hindi Belt in the present day states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Jharkhand. A significant minority of Indo-Guyanese are also descended from indentured migrants who came from the South Indian states of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh; these South Indian descendants are the plurality ancestry in the East Berbice-Corentyne region.

Largest cities
Languages
English is the official language of Guyana and is used for education, government, media, and services. The vast majority of the population speaks Guyanese Creole, an English-based creole with slight African, Indian, and Amerindian influences, as their native tongue.Indigenous Cariban languages (Akawaio, Wai-Wai, and Macushi) are spoken by a small minority of Amerindians.
Guyanese Hindustani is spoken by the older generation of the Indo-Guyanese community, but younger Guyanese use English or Guyanese Creole.

Religion
Religious groups
Religious sect groups
In 2012 the population was 63% Christian, 25% Hindu, 7% Muslim.
Religion is an important aspect of identity in Guyana and reflects the various external influences of colonialism and immigrant groups. Christianity was considered the prestigious religion, transmitting European culture and representing upward mobility in the colonial society. Missionaries and churches built schools, and until nationalisation in the 1970s, nearly all schools were denominational. When Indians were brought to the country as indentured labour, Hinduism and Islam gained prominence, but for some decades neither were acknowledged for legal marriage.Some traditional African and Amerindian folk beliefs remain alongside the dominant religions.

Health
Life expectancy at birth is estimated to be 69.5 years as of 2020.The PAHO/ WHO Global Health Report 2014 (using statistics of 2012) ranked the country as having the highest suicide rate in the world, with a mortality rate of 44.2 per 100,000 inhabitants. According to 2011 estimates from the WHO, HIV prevalence is 1.2% of the teen/adult population (ages 15–49).

Education
Education in Guyana was primarily introduced and operated by missionising Christian denominations. The wealthy planter elite often sent their children for education abroad in England, but as schools improved in Guyana, they also modelled after the former British education system. Primary education became compulsory in 1876, although the need for children to assist in agricultural labour kept many children from schooling. In the 1960s, the government took over control of all schools in the country. Fees were removed, new schools were opened in rural areas, and the University of Guyana was established so students no longer were required to go abroad for tertiary education.Guyana's literacy was one of the highest in the Caribbean, by estimated literacy rate of 96 per cent in 1990. In a 2014 UNESCO estimate, literacy is 96.7 in the 15–24 year old age group. However, the functional literacy may be only as high as 70%.Students are expected to take the NGSA (National Grade Six Assessment) for entrance into high school in grade 7. They take the CXC at the end of high school. Schools have introduced the CAPE exams which all other Caribbean countries have introduced. The A-level system, inherited from the British era, is offered only in a few schools.
Infrastructure challenges impact access to education, especially students in the hinterland. A World Bank assessment showed roughly 50% of teachers were "untrained, operated with inadequate teaching materials, and served children of parents with low levels of adult literacy".

Government
Politics
The politics of Guyana takes place in a framework of a Parliamentary representative democratic republic, in which the President of Guyana is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the President and the Government. Legislative power is vested in both the President and the National Assembly of Guyana. Historically, politics are a source of tension in the country, and violent riots have often broken out during elections. During the 1970s and 1980s, the political landscape was dominated by the People's National Congress.In 1992, the first constitutional elections were overseen by former United States President Jimmy Carter, and the People's Progressive Party led the country until 2015. The two parties are principally organised along ethnic lines and as a result often clash on issues related to the allocation of resources. In the General Elections held on 28 November 2011, the People's Progressive Party (PPP) retained a majority, and their presidential candidate Donald Ramotar was elected as president.On 11 May 2015, early general elections were held. A coalition of the A Partnership for National Unity-Alliance for Change (APNU-AFC) parties won 33 of the 65 seats in the National Assembly. On 16 May 2015, retired army general David A. Granger became the eighth President of Guyana. However, on 21 December 2018, a vote of confidence was called for, regarding terms under which the government granted a franchise for offshore oil exploration. Legislator Charrandass Persaud defected from the coalition and the vote failed, requiring new elections. The governing coalition litigated this result for the entire 90 days allowed for new elections. New elections were held on March 2, 2020, and results were declared on August 3, 2020, with the People's Progressive Party/Civic as the winner. Mohamed Irfaan Ali became the ninth President of Guyana.

Public procurement
Public procurement in Guyana is overseen by the Public Procurement Commission, appointed under the Public Procurement Commission Act 2003. Due to lengthy delay in identifying and agreeing commission members, the commission was not appointed until 2016.

Military
The Guyana Defence Force (GDF) is the military service of Guyana.

Human rights
Homosexual acts, as well as anal and oral sex, are illegal in Guyana. It is currently the only country in South America that prohibits such acts. Engaging in such acts can warrant life imprisonment, though the prohibition is not enforced. These laws can be difficult to alter, as Guyana's Constitution protects laws inherited from the British Empire from constitutional review. However, cross-dressing has been legal since 2018, when a ban was struck down by Guyana's court of last resort, the Caribbean Court of Justice. President David A. Granger (2015–2020) expressed support for these efforts.

Administrative divisions
Regions and Neighbourhood Councils
Guyana is divided into 10 regions:The regions are divided into 27 neighbourhood councils.

Natural regions.
Guyana is divided into four (4) natural regions. These are:

Low Coastal Plain
Hilly Sand and Clay
Highland Region
Interior Savannahs

International and regional relations
Boundary disputes
Guyana is in border disputes with both Suriname, which claims the area east of the left bank of the Corentyne River and the New River in southwestern Suriname, and Venezuela which claims the land west of the Essequibo River, once the Dutch colony of Essequibo as part of Venezuela's Guayana Essequiba. The maritime component of the territorial dispute with Suriname was arbitrated by the United Nations Convention on Law of the Sea, and a ruling was announced on 21 September 2007. The ruling concerning the Caribbean Sea north of both nations found both parties violated treaty obligations and declined to order any compensation to either party.When the British surveyed British Guiana in 1840, they included the entire Cuyuni River basin within the colony. Venezuela did not agree with this as it claimed all lands west of the Essequibo River. In 1898, at Venezuela's request, an international arbitration tribunal was convened, and in 1899 the tribunal issued an award giving about 94% of the disputed territory to British Guiana. The arbitration was concluded, settled and accepted into International law by both Venezuela and the UK. Venezuela brought up again the settled claim, during the 1960s cold war period, and during Guyana's Independence period. This issue is now governed by the Treaty of Geneva of 1966, which was signed by the Governments of Guyana, the United Kingdom and Venezuela, and Venezuela continues to claim Guayana Esequiba. Venezuela calls this region "Zona en Reclamación" (Reclamation Zone) and Venezuelan maps of the national territory routinely include it, drawing it in with dashed lines.

Specific small disputed areas involving Guyana are Ankoko Island with Venezuela; Corentyne River with Suriname; and Tigri Area or New River Triangle with Suriname. In 1967 a Surinamese survey team was found in the New River Triangle and was forcibly removed. In August 1969 a patrol of the Guyana Defence Force found a survey camp and a partially completed airstrip inside the triangle, and documented evidence of the Surinamese intention to occupy the entire disputed area. After an exchange of gunfire, the Surinamese were driven from the triangle.

The Organisation of American States (OAS)
Guyana entered the Organisation of American States in 1991.

Indigenous Leaders Summits of America (ILSA)
With Guyana having many groups of indigenous persons and given the geographical location of the country, the contributions of the Guyanese to the OAS respecting indigenous people may be significant.The position of the OAS respecting indigenous persons developed over the years. "The "OAS has supported and participated in the organisation of Indigenous Leaders Summits of Americas (ILSA)"The Draft American Declaration of the Rights of the Indigenous Persons appears to be a working document

Agreements which affect financial relationships
The Double Taxation Relief (CARICOM) Treaty 1994
At a CARICOM Meeting, representatives of Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana respectively signed The Double Taxation Relief (CARICOM) Treaty 1994 on 19 August 1994.This treaty covered taxes, residence, tax jurisdictions, capital gains, business profits, interest, dividends, royalties and other areas.

FATCA
On 30 June 2014, Guyana signed a Model 1 agreement with the United States of America in relation to the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA).
This Model 1 agreement includes a reference to the Tax Information Exchange Agreement (Clause 3) which was signed on 22 July 1992 in Georgetown, Guyana intending to exchange Tax information on an automatic basis.

Infrastructure and telecommunications
Transport
There are a total of 187 km (116 mi) of railway, all dedicated to ore transport. There are 7,969 km (4,952 mi) of highway, of which 591 km (367 mi) are paved. Navigable waterways extend 1,077 km (669 mi), including the Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo rivers.
There are ports at Georgetown, Port Kaituma, and New Amsterdam. There are two international airports (Cheddi Jagan International Airport, Timehri and Eugene F. Correira International Airport (formerly Ogle Airport); along with about 90 airstrips, nine of which have paved runways. Guyana, Suriname and the Falkland Islands are the only three regions in South America that drive on the left.

Electricity
The electricity sector in Guyana is dominated by Guyana Power and Light (GPL), the state-owned vertically integrated utility. Although the country has a large potential for hydroelectric and bagasse-fuelled power generation, most of its 226 MW of installed capacity correspond to diesel-engine driven generators.Several initiatives are in place to improve energy access in the hinterland.

Culture
Guyana's culture is very similar to that of the English-speaking Caribbean, and has historically been tied to the English-speaking Caribbean as part of the British Empire when it became a possession in the nineteenth century.
The current Guyanese culture began to develop when immigrants (some of them forced, others voluntary) adapted and converged with the dominant British culture. Slavery eradicated much of the distinction between differing African cultures as they were supplanted by British culture, which encouraged the adoption of Christianity and the values of British colonists; this laid the foundations of today's Afro-Guyanese culture. Arriving later and under somewhat more favourable circumstances, Indian immigrants were subjected to less assimilation, and they preserved more aspects of Indian culture, such as religion, cuisine, music, festivals, and clothing.Guyana's geographical location, its sparsely populated rain-forest regions, and its substantial Amerindian population differentiate it from English-speaking Caribbean countries. Its blend of the two dominant cultures, Indo-Guyanese and Afro-Guyanese, gives it similarities to Trinidad and Tobago and Suriname, and distinguishes it from other parts of the Americas. Guyana shares similar interests with the islands in the West Indies, such as food, festive events, music, sports, etc.
Events include Mashramani (Mash), Phagwah (Holi), and Deepavali (Diwali).

Landmarks
St George's Anglican Cathedral: A historic Anglican Cathedral made of wood.
Demerara Harbour Bridge: The world's fourth-longest floating bridge.
Berbice Bridge: The world's sixth-longest floating bridge.
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Building: Houses the headquarters of the largest and most powerful economic union in the Caribbean.
Providence Stadium: Situated on Providence on the east bank of the Demerara River and built in time for the ICC World Cup 2007, it is the largest sports stadium in the country. It is also near the Providence Mall, forming a major spot for leisure in Guyana.
Arthur Chung Conference Centre: Presented as a gift from the People's Republic of China to the Government of Guyana. It is the only one of its kind in the country.
Stabroek Market: A large cast-iron colonial structure that looked like a statue was located next to the Demerara River.
Georgetown City Hall: A beautiful wooden structure also from the colonial era.
Takutu River Bridge: A bridge across the Takutu River, connecting Lethem in Guyana to Bonfim in Brazil.
Umana Yana: An Amerindian benab, that is a national monument built in 1972, for a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Non-Aligned nations (It was rebuilt in 2016).
Shell Beach: Approximately 140 km long beach. In some parts beach consists of pure shells, very high biological diversity. Important nesting site for 8 species of sea turtles.
Parliament Building of Guyana: Parliament Building currently houses the seat of the National Assembly of the Government of Guyana. Located in Stabroek, facing Brickdam and bordered by Hadfield Street, High Street, and Cornhill Street

Sports
The major sports in Guyana are cricket (Guyana is part of the West Indies cricket team for international cricket purposes), basketball, football and volleyball. Minor sports include softball cricket (beach cricket), field hockey, netball, rounders, lawn tennis, table tennis, boxing, squash, rugby, horse racing and a few others.
Guyana played host to international cricket matches as part of the 2007 Cricket World Cup (CWC 2007). The new 15,000-seat Providence Stadium, also referred to as Guyana National Stadium, was built in time for the World Cup and was ready for the beginning of play on 28 March. At the first international game of CWC 2007 at the stadium, Lasith Malinga of the Sri Lankan team took four wickets in four consecutive deliveries.Guyana's national basketball team has traditionally been one of the top contenders at the CaribeBasket, the top international basketball tournament for countries in the Caribbean.
For international football purposes, Guyana is part of CONCACAF. The highest league in their club system is the GFF Elite League. Guyana's national football team has never qualified for the FIFA World Cup; however, they qualified for the Caribbean Cup in 1991, finishing fourth, and 2007. In 2019, they qualified for the CONCACAF Gold Cup for the first time, after finishing seventh in the qualifiers. They finished third in Group D, having lost two matches and drawn one.
Guyana also has five courses for horse racing.

Guyana featured a beach volleyball team at the 2019 South American Beach Games.

See also
Index of Guyana-related articles
Outline of Guyana
Petroleum industry in Guyana
Tourism in Guyana

Explanatory notes
Passage 3:
Opuwo
Opuwo is the capital of the Kunene Region in north-western Namibia. The town is situated about 720 km north-northwest from the capital Windhoek, and has a population of 20,000. It is the commercial hub of the Kunene Region.

Economy and infrastructure
Opuwo is situated at the intersection of the C41 and C43. There is a small airfield in town, Opuwo Airport.Putuavanga Senior Secondary School in town is among the best government schools in Kunene Region. There is also the Opuwo Primary School with 39 teachers and 1,200 learners.There are the following organizations and offices in the town: Opuwo Police Station, Opuwo District Hospital, Ministry of Home Affairs (Department of Civic Affairs / Regional Civic Registration Office / Kunene Region) and Opuwo Department of Works. There is a Christian church.

Politics
Opuwo is governed by a town council that has seven seats.

Electoral History
History
Etymology
The name Opuwo was given by the commissioner of Ondangwa, Hugo Hahn, who came in search of land to build an office. Upon his arrival, he asked local headmen to give him land where he could build an office. The headmen gave him a small plot, and when the headmen tried to give him more land, Mr. Hahn responded saying "Opuwo (it’s enough for me). I don’t want any more land". That is how Opuwo got its name. The local residents of Opuwo called it Otjihinamaparero at the time, and some still call it that.Hugo Hahn called the land "Ohopoho Otjitopora", which means "they see the bore hole and their water comes out".  The name Otjihinamaparero was changed to Opuwo in 1974 due to orthographic reform.

Colonial administration
The first office to be established in the Kaokoland area was the colonial administrator in Swartbooisdrift on the banks of the Kunene River. This was the administrative centre of the area from 1925 to 1939. Afterwards, administrative control of the area shifted to Ohopoho, later called Opuwo.
The police station in Swartbooisdrift was run by Sergeant Herbert, and his aim was to receive the Angola Boers who had trekked to Angola out of refusal to accept the British government in South Africa. Sergeant Basson took over the office at Swartbooisdrift, and excavated Opuwo's first bore hole. Basson had the nickname “Katjiriamakaja” (a person who eats tobacco).

Culture
The Opuwo Town Council hosts the annual Opuwo Trade Fair, which was launched in 2012. The festival combines a modern business exhibition with cultural performances, live shows and entertainment. Opuwo Trade Fair takes place in the month of May.
Passage 4:
Effiakuma
Effiakuma is a residential town in the Western region of Ghana. It is about 10 kilometres from Takoradi the regional capital. It was built in the early 1960s by the then president of the country Kwame Nkrumah. There are about three general plans for the buildings in the town. The houses were built by the State Housing Cooperation. Effiakuma is the forty-seventh most populous in Ghana, in terms of population, with a population of 35,094 people. On the outskirts of the town is the Effiakuma Zongo.
In March 2011 many Mossi Muslims who fled the conflict in Ivory Coast took refuge in the town.

Boundary
The town is bounded to the west and North by Takoradi, to the east by Effia, to the south by Anaji.
Passage 5:
Port Said Governorate
Port Said Governorate (Arabic: محافظة بورسعيد, romanized: Muḩāfaz̧at Būr Sa'īd) is one of the Canal Zone governorates of Egypt. It is located in the northeastern part of the country, on the Mediterranean Sea at the northern gate of the Suez Canal, making it the second most important harbor in Egypt. Its capital is the city of Port Said, and it is the home of the Suez Canal Authority historical administrative building and the Lighthouse of Port Said.
Port Said Governorate is wholly urban, with 98.2% of the area populated. Most of the districts of the Governorate lie on the African side of the Suez Canal, although Port Fuad lies on the Asian side.

Geography
In 2015 a huge natural gas reserve was discovered off the coast of Port Said and was described as "the largest ever found in the Mediterranean Sea". Egypt now has one of the largest areas of natural gas and Italian company, ENI has been contracted to work on the natural gas liquefaction for Egypt. It was welcome news as Egypt has long suffered an energy crisis.The New Suez Canal project launched in 2015 included dredging of the East Port Said Canal.

Port Said East
Located on the Sinai side of the canal, Port Said East is a development project that contains the Suez Canal Container Terminal, which opened in 2004.In November 2015, president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi publicly launched a new harbour development project at East Port Said.A side canal at Port Said East was opened in 2016.

Municipal divisions
According to the Port Said Governorate website, it is divided into the following municipal divisions for administrative purposes. El Sharq, El Arab, Port Fuad, El Manakh, El Dawahy, El Zohur, West (El Gharb), South (El Ganoub).Divisions of the governorate, at the 2006 census, included Mubarak East (the zone east of the new channel), Port Fuad 2 (the southern half of Fuad Island), Ganoub 2 (the southern part of South district), El Manasrah (now El Gharb), and a police department covering the docks. The total estimated population as of January 2023 was 789,241.

Demographics
The total population was estimated at the end of 2016 to be 684,303. With an urbanization rate of 100%, the Port Said Governorate is one of the most urbanized in the country, along with Cairo and Suez. The governorate is treated as one urban agglomeration by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.

Social unrest
In February 2012, more than 70 people died in the Port Said Stadium Riot after a football match. Social unrest in early 2013 continued for at least two weeks. While protesting on March 5, 2013, protesters set fire to the governorate's headquarters and several people were injured.In October 2016, some Egyptians protested rent increases.

Industrial zones in Port Said
According to the Egyptian Governing Authority for Investment and Free Zones (GAFI), in affiliation with the Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation, the following industrial zones are located in this governorate:
The industrial zone C 1
The industrial zone C 6
The industrial zone C 11
The Northwest Bortex
The industrial zone south of Port Said (Al Reswah)

New urban community industrial zone
East Port Said

Economy
To promote trade, during his presidency, Anwar Sadat declared it a duty-free zone. Port Said Governorate is a major transit point for trade, importing and exporting millions of tons of goods each year. Tourism is also promoted for the region.

Important sites
There are several museums in this area. For cultural tourism one may want to visit the Port Said National Museum of Antiquities which opened in 1987 and is located at the confluence of the Suez Canal waters and the Mediterranean Sea. It houses about 9,000 artifacts from all eras, ranging from the Pharaonic, Greek, Roman, and modern eras, as well as Coptic and Islamic eras.The Military Museum of Port Said, established in 1964, commemorates the 1956 the tripartite aggression on the city. It features armory and military artifacts, equipment used in the wars fought between 1956 - 1967 and in 1973. El Nasr Museum of Modern Art in Port Said opened on December 25, 1995 and includes artwork by Egyptian artists in various branches of Fine Art.The Statue de Lesseps, honoring Ferdinand de Lesseps, the developer of the Suez and Panama Canals, has its base at the entrance to the Suez Canal, along Palestine Street, where passing ships come from all over the world. This makes it a favorite with tourists. Nearby, is the Suez Canal Authority building built on the banks of Port Said at the start of the project.The lighthouse and jetties at Port Said, located at the northern terminus of the Suez canal, and completed in 1869, were built of concrete of Teil lime and Port Said sand. The lighthouse is a monolith 180 feet high. In the construction 120,000 tons of Teil hydraulic lime were used. It was an important engineering feat involving 25,000 blocks, each weighing twenty-five tons.Tall al Faramah, also called Pelusium, is of Ecclesiastical and archeological importance. It is an archeological, prehistoric site with ruins and a Byzantine church.In 2004, the marine sector of Egypt had 3,013 fishermen who were categorized in the recreational fishing sector, fishing in and around the Mediterranean Sea and Red Sea. "Recreational fishing is widely practised along the Mediterranean Coast", where Port Said is located.Tel Tennis is an island (also called Tinnis or Thenessus) located 7 km (4.3 mi) southwest of Port Said on Lake Manzala and can be reached from Port Said by boat.One can find historic churches in Port Said Governorate. There is a Roman Church, established in 1926, a Melkite Greek Catholic Church called Saint Elias Greek Catholic Church, and an old French Cathedral.

See also
Governorates of Egypt
Passage 6:
Ché OVNI
Ché OVNI is a 1968 Argentine science-fiction musical comedy film directed by Aníbal Uset and starring Juan Carlos Altavista, Javier Portales, Jorge Sobral, and Marcela López Rey.

Background
Ché OVNI was only the second space film to be made in Argentina, after El Satelite Chiflado (The Crazy Satellite). The film is about alien invaders who abduct a tango-singer. OVNI means "UFO"; a newspaper article from the Cine Herald, July 17, 1968, depicted a cartoon Martian landing in the capital of Spain" a part of the promotion to the film.

Plot
An alien envoy arrives on Earth to kidnap a porteño tango singer and she is taken to planet where there is no live. She and other aliens of the planet wish to feel love again and the computers inform her that she is well-suited to trying to accomplish this, and results in a series of tango performances. The aliens fall in love with the tango singer Jorge (Jorge Sobral).

Principal cast
Juan Carlos Altavista as Juan
Javier Portales as Professor
Jorge Sobral as Jorge
Marcela López Rey as Cósmica
Erika Wallner as Rubia
Perla Caron as Amarilla
Zelmar Gueño as Pierre

Reception
Shot on locations in London, Paris, Madrid and Buenos Aires, the film was considered "one of the most thunderous commercial failures" in Argentine film. 
However, Augusto R. Giustozzi said that Jorge Sobral "excelled" in his role.
Passage 7:
Tebicuary River
The Tebicuary River (Spanish: Río Tebicuary), a tributary of Paraguay River is a river in Paraguay. Located in the southwestern part of that country,  it flows eastwards discharging to Paraguay River about 45 km south of Formosa and 30 km north of Pilar.
The San Rafael National Park in the river's upper basin.

See also
List of rivers of Paraguay
Passage 8:
EgyptAir Flight 763
EgyptAir Flight 763 was an international non-scheduled passenger flight from Cairo, Egypt, to Aden, South Yemen. On 19 March 1972, the flight was a McDonnell Douglas DC-9-32 registered in Yugoslavia as YU-AHR and operated by the newly renamed EgyptAir. It crashed into the Shamsan Mountains on approach to Aden, killing all 30 people on board.

Aircraft
The aircraft involved was a McDonnell Douglas DC-9-32. It was built in 1970 as construction number 47503 with manufacturer's serial number 587 and registered as YU-AHR.

Accident
On 19 March 1972 EgyptAir Flight 763 was on a flight from Cairo International Airport in Egypt to Aden International Airport in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (South Yemen), via Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The aircraft was chartered from the Yugoslav airline Inex Adria with 21 passengers and 9 crew members on board. Flight 763 was on a visual approach to land on runway 08 into Aden International Airport when the aircraft struck Jebel Shamsan, the highest peak of Aden Crater, an extinct volcano, located 7 kilometres (3.8 nmi) from the airport. On impact the aircraft burned, killing all on board. At the time of the accident, it was the deadliest to have occurred in South Yemen. As of November 2011, it remains the deadliest civil aviation accident and the second deadliest aviation accident to have occurred in Yemen.
Passage 9:
Where Dead Voices Gather
Where Dead Voices Gather is a book by Nick Tosches. It is, in part, a biography of Emmett Miller, one of the last minstrel singers. Just as importantly, it depicts Tosches' search for information about Miller, about whom he initially wrote in his book Country: The Twisted Roots of Rock and Roll. It is also a study of minstrelsy and its connection to American folk music, country music, the blues and ultimately, rock and roll. In that way, it is a companion volume to his other books of music journalism, Country and Unsung Heroes of Rock N' Roll.
Passage 10:
Domburg
Domburg is a seaside resort on the North Sea, on the northwest coast of Walcheren in the Dutch province of Zeeland. It is a part of the municipality of Veere, and lies about 11 km northwest of the city of Middelburg, the provincial capital.

Demographics
In 2010, the town of Domburg had 1,490 inhabitants, up from 1,251 in 2001. The built-up area of the town was 0.78 km2, and contained 881 residences.

History
The area of Domburg has been inhabited since at least 4,000 BCE. In 1647 after heavy storms on the beach of Domburg a sanctuary was discovered with around 40 stones with Latin inscriptions and carvings of several gods, among them of Neptune (sea) and Mercury (trade), but the majority of a local female deity: Nehalennia who appears to have protected both trade and shipping. According to the inscriptions the stones were erected by tradesmen and captains to fulfil their vows after a safe journey, mentioning explicitly on one stone a merchant of pottery doing business with Britain.
From a later period (starting 650 AD) many coins have been found on the beach including Anglo-Saxon sceattas. The settlement on the exact present day location of Domburg however originates from a circular earthen citadel that was discovered according to expectations by archaeologists in 1991 and which was dated to around 875 AD a period shortly after recorded raids by Danes.

In the following centuries there would be considerable activity by monks, not in the least because of salt works and the reclamation of land by which the island of Walcheren was formed. Near Domburg the mediaeval castle of Westhove, now a family hostel, used to be a stronghold of the abbot of the Abbey of Middelburg.
The town of Domburg, actually more a village, surprisingly received a city charter at the early date of 1223. Probably because the counts of Holland had to seek refuge on the island in some neighbourly quarrel. Until the 19th century the town did not change much in its agricultural and (some) fishing character, although tourism started in the 17th century with cityfolk from Middelburg who would enjoy a Sunday trip to the area in summer because of its coast and woodlands and merry inns. Wealth from both West- and East Indian trade also enabled many merchants from Middelburg and Flushing to build manorhouses with lavish gardens in the area, but only a few have survived.
The lordship of Domburg used to belong to the dukes of Burgundy when they were counts of both Holland and Zeeland. For financial reasons they sold Domburg to a lesser branch of their family from which it eventually ended up in the hands of private individuals and passing through the hands of more than one family until lordship rights were completely abolished in 1848. Mostly they were rich merchants from Zeeland cities who returned from India after having served as the director of trade in for example Bengalen.
For a long time Domburg consisted of two jurisdictions: Domburg-Binnen (the town and coast) and Domburg-Buiten (the country side). In 1816 they were united into a single municipality, into which the village of Oostkapelle was merged in 1966. At the end of the last century all the smaller towns of Walcheren were joined to form the municipality of Veere.
Starting 1834 Domburg became a seaside resort offering a bathing cure and facilities. A small Badpaviljoen was built shortly after on top of the dunes, which was replaced by a larger one in 1888 which offered space for gentleman playing billiards and ladies drinking tea, a concert room, a seaview veranda and more of such amenities that beach life requires.
Most important for its development was however the arrival of a railway station at Flushing and a connecting steamship service with England. A considerable British influence in these years was responsible for Domburg establishing the second golf-course in the Netherlands, although it never expanded over a friendly nine holes.
Like in so many seaside resorts at the end of the 19th century a flock of European royalty landed at Domburg for a few years when the resort was fashionable only to move along again a few years later. The Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Pommern regularly arrived in the town by private-charter train on Stoomtram Walcheren. Instrumental however in the mythology of the place and the mentioned fashion was the very successful doctor Johann Georg Mezger who achieved international fame for his scientific approach of physiotherapy and for being the founding father of Swedish massage.
Domburg is perhaps best known for its hosting of a group of artists of which Piet Mondriaan or Mondrian is the best known. His Pier and Ocean paintings was inspired by the same location where James Abbott McNeill Whistler painted the Domburg sea with its characteristic piers which do not cater for the happy crowd but are meant to break waves that may damage the dunes and thus the existence of the place. This lead Domburg to be a testing ground for Leiden's De Stijl movement.
(For references to literature see Dutch language page)

The statistical area "Domburg", which also can include the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 1650.

Items of local interest
Once the location of shrine dedicated to Nehalennia.
Formerly the western terminus of Stoomtram Walcheren which ran to Koudekerke, Middelburg and Vlissingen.

Pictures
Passage 11:
Yanggakdo
Yanggakdo, or Yanggak Island is a small island in the Taedong River, located about two kilometers to the south-east of the centre of the North Korean capital city Pyongyang. It is connected to the northern and southern side of Pyongyang by the Yanggak Bridge, which spans the island and separates it into a northeastern and southwestern part. The name means "Rams horn island" and is said to be derived from its shape.
On its northeastern end the 170 metres (560 ft) tall Yanggakdo International Hotel is located, the second tallest building in North Korea.
Adjacent to the hotel's southern side, there was originally a 9,000 square metre nine-hole golf course which as of 2011 had been demolished to make space for a new Chinese-funded health complex to be built.Also on the northeastern part of Yanggak Island, the Pyongyang International Cinema Hall can be found, which hosts the opening and closing ceremonies of the Pyongyang International Film Festival.
The island's southwestern part houses the Yanggakdo Stadium, which is a multi-purpose stadium that holds 30,000 people and was opened in 1989.
Passage 12:
Abdul Fattah Ismail
Abd al-Fattah Ismail Ali Al-Jawfi (Arabic: عبد الفتاح إسماعيل علي الجوفي, romanized: ʿAbd al-Fattāḥ Ismāʿīl; 28 July 1939 – 13 January 1986) was the Marxist de facto leader of People's Democratic Republic of Yemen from 1969 to 1980. He served as Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Council (head of state) and founder, chief ideologue and first leader of the Yemeni Socialist Party from 21 December 1978 to 21 April 1980. He died under mysterious circumstances during the 1986 South Yemen Civil War, where no body was found.

Biography
Born in July 1934 in the Hugariah district, Taiz of North Yemen, he was educated in Aden, where he subsequently worked in an oil refinery from 1956 to 1959 as an apprentice. As a co-founder of the Arab Nationalist Movement in South Yemen, he contributed to the formation of a number of Movement cells before he was arrested by the British authorities in Aden for political incitement of workers.
In 1961 he became a school teacher in one of the Aden districts, and at the same time continuing political activity. He was a co-founder of the National Front for the Liberation of South Yemen (NLF). After the NLF started the 14 October 1963 Revolution for the liberation of South Yemen from British colonial rule, Ismail became a full-time socialist revolutionary, whereby he undertook the leadership of the NLF underground military wing (fedayeen) in Aden, as well as political activity.
He was elected to the NLF executive in the first, second and third NLF congresses, 1965–67. After South Yemen gained independence in 1967 he was appointed Minister of Culture and Yemeni Unity. In the fourth NLF congress, he was instrumental in determining the progressive line of the revolution. But in March 1968 he was arrested by the right wing of the NLF and went into exile, where he drafted the program for Accomplishing National Democratic Liberation, a leftist manifesto. He undertook a leading role in the consolidation of left wing of NLF which subsequently regained power in the 22 June 1969 "Correction Step."
Subsequent to the "Correction Step" Ismail was elected Secretary General of the NLF Central Committee, thus making him the country's de facto leader.  He was also elected a member of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Council. In 1970 he was elected Chairman of Presidium. He undertook a leading role in the dialogue between NLF and other left parties in south Yemen leading to the formation of the Yemeni Socialist Party (YSP). He was elected Secretary General of the YSP at the first party congress in October 1978. Ideologically, he is considered to have favored the Soviet model of socialist development (as opposed to Maoist alternatives). In October 1979, Ismail secured the 1979 Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with the USSR. Similar treaties with East Germany and Ethiopia followed in 1981, following Ismail's resignation from office. In 1980 he resigned from all his posts for allegedly health reasons and was succeeded by Ali Nasir Muhammad. However, Ismail was appointed president of the party before he went to Moscow for medical treatment, until 1985, when he returned in the face of a mounting crisis between Muhammad and his opponents in the YSP.
In October 1985 he was elected to the YSP Politburo and as a Secretary of the Central Committee, but the crisis had erupted on January 13, 1986, into a violent struggle in Aden between Ali Nasir's supporters and Ismail's supporters (See South Yemen Civil War). Fighting lasted for more than a month and resulted in thousands of casualties, Ali Nasir's ouster, and Ismail's mysterious disappearance. He was allegedly killed when naval forces loyal to Ali Nasir shelled his home in Aden.
Passage 13:
Tony Dale
Anthony William Dale, known as Tony Dale (born 1969) is a public servant from suburban Cedar Park, Texas, who is a Republican former member of the Texas House of Representatives from District 136.First elected in 2012, Dale was reelected to successive two-year terms in 2014 and 2016.  House District 136 consists of the Williamson County portion of Austin, the City of Cedar Park, the City of Leander, North Austin MUD #1 (Rattan Creek), Block House Creek MUD, Brushy Creek MUD, Fern Bluff MUD and a small portion of Round Rock.

Background
Dale received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from Ohio State University at Columbus in central Ohio. While at Ohio State, he was active in partisan politics and for a time was President of the Ohio State University College Republican Club and the state co-chairman of the Ohio College Republican Federation.  He also worked at the Ohio Republican Party for four years as a college intern.
Dale is a US Army veteran and active member of the Texas State Guard.  His military decorations include the Army Commendation Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, Army Achievement Medal, National Defense Service Ribbon, Army Service Ribbon, Texas Outstanding Service Medal, Texas Adjutant General's Individual Award, Texas State Guard Service Medal, Texas Cold War Service Medal, Texas Humanitarian Relief Ribbon, Commanding General's Individual Award (second award), Texas Faithful Service Medal, Texas State Guard Commendation Medal, Texas State Guard Achievement Medal, Texas State Guard Officer Professional Education Ribbon, State Guard Association of the United States Professional Development Medal, State Guard Association of the United States Meritorious Unit Award, Basic Parachutist Badge, Master Military Emergency Management Specialist Badge and Expert Marksman Badge and The Noble Patron of Armor Award. Dale is a charter member of the Hunter-Morris Memorial American Legion Post 911 in Cedar Park. Mrs. Dale was the 2014-2015 post commander. He is a Colonel in the Texas State Guard where he serves as the Operations and Plans Officer at Headquarters, Camp Mabry. In 2021 he was inducted into the Ohio State University Army ROTC Society Hall of Fame.
The former owner of a consulting company, Dale is a member of the Cedar Park Chamber of Commerce. 
In 2020, Mary Lopez Dale was appointed by Governor Greg Abbott as a member of the Texas Veterans Commission. She is the past Chair of the Williamson County United Way. The Dales have been married over 30 years and they have two daughters. One is graduate of Leander ISD schools and the other attends school at LISD. They attend St. Vincent de Paul Roman Catholic Church in Austin.

Political life
From 2002 until 2009 Dale served as a precinct chairman for the Williamson County Republican Party.  He also served in the capacity of election clerk and election judge.From 2009 to 2012, Dale was a member of the Cedar Park City Council and for a year served as the mayor pro tem. Earlier, he was the secretary and later vice chairman of the Cedar Park Planning and Zoning Commission. As a member of the board of the Williamson County Conservation Foundation, he pushed for local control over federal regulations. He served too on the Cedar Park Charter Review Committee.In 2014 Dale was unopposed in the Republican Primary.  In the November 4, 2014 Dale received 20,862 (54.2 percent) and out paced his closest opponent by 13.1 percent. Democratic nominee John Bucy of Austin received 15,821 (41.1 percent) and Libertarian nominee Justin Billiot of Cedar Park received 1,811 (4.7 percent).In the 84th Legislative Session (2015-2016) Dale served on the house committees of (1) Homeland Security and Public Safety, (2) Energy Resources and (3) Local and Consent Calendar Committee.  In the 85th Legislative Session (2017-2018) Dale served on (1) Environmental Regulation Committee and (2) Vice Chairman of the Juvenile Justice & Family Issues Committee and (3) House Select Committee on Cybersecurity. He was appointed as a member of the House Working Group to reform the Child Protective Service.  He is a member of the House Working Group developing internal House policies on sexual harassment.  He is the Chairman of the House Energy Caucus.  In the 85th legislative session Dale served as Deputy Floor Leader for the Republican Caucus.  He is on the board of directors of the Texas Conservative Coalition.
The Cedar Park Chamber of Commerce named Dale the 2017 Citizen of the Year.  In 2018 Cedar Park Mayor Matt Powell presented Dale with the city's highest civilian honor by bestowing upon him a key to the city. In 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2013 the Hill Country News reader poll voted Dale the "Best Elected Official". The Texas Conservative Coalition, a bipartisan group of legislators, named him a "Courageous Conservative" following the 83rd, 84th and 85th regular sessions. After the 84th session the Texas Right To Life rated him a 100%.  The Combined Law Enforcement Associations of Texas (CLEAT) named him Freshman of the Year in 2013." Following the 84th legislative session in 2015 the Combined Law Enforcement Associations of Texas named him, "Best of the House". In 2015 he was elected to the Board of Directors of the Texas Conservative Coalition. In 2013 and 2015 the Texas Association of Business named him a "Champion For Free Enterprise". The Texas Alliance for Life PAC endorsed his reelection in 2015/2016.  In 2015 the Texas Conservative Roundtable named him an "Effective Conservative".
Prior to the 2011 Egyptian Revolution he traveled to Amman, Jordan to train pro-democracy Egyptians on grassroots campaign tactics. This training was conducted on behalf of the International Republican Institute.

Legislative positions
During the 84th Regular Legislative Session (2015) Dale filed legislation to award the Texas Purple Heart Medal to the Fort Hood shooting victims of terrorist Nidal Hasan on 11/5/2009 (HB115).  He also filed legislation to require the use of E-Verify by all state agencies and public universities (HB183) and require the use of E-Verify by state contractors and subcontractors (HB889).  Dale filed HB861 to facilitate the prosecution of adults who solicit minors online for illicit sexual purposes.His 2015 84th legislative session accomplishments also include: HB939 – Allows homeowners in HOAs to install standby generators. HB1446 – Allows sexual assault victims and stalking victims to get reimbursed by the crime victims fund.   HB 1447 – streamlines protective orders for victims of sexual abuse, assault, stalking and trafficking.  HB2604- Reduces red tape for police officers applying for a concealed handgun license (CHL). HB4030 – Requires a complete background check prior to starting work as a private security licensee.
In the 84th session he also jointly authored of co-authored the following successful legislation: HB114 – Restricts the use of Capital Appreciation Bonds. HB505 – Removes limits on the number of dual-credit courses high school students may take. HB1286 – Enhanced penalties for injury to a child, elderly individual or disable person. HB1293 – Allows stalking victims to have confidentiality in court proceedings. HB1783 – Requires schools to reports crimes to police and not coerce employees to not report crimes. HB2339 – Allows customers to carry alcoholic beverages throughout all areas inside stadiums and arenas.
During the 85th session (2017) Dale authored legislation to target the teachers having inappropriate relationships with students.  He authored additional child protection measures such as HB 1810 that allows for the prosecution of criminals possessing and publishing lewd visual images of children.  He also passed legislation targeting online predators who blackmail individuals online using intimate images and videos.  This crime known as 'sextortion" is a growing concern as reported by the National Center For Missing and Exploited Children".  The Speaker of the House appointed Dale to the House Working Group on Child Protective Service Reform.  In that capacity Dale worked on legislation to transform and improve Texas' challenged child welfare system.

Interest group ratings
The Texas Association of Business scored him 93 percent for the 83rd session. The National Rifle Association scored Dale 92 percent following the 83rd session. Following the 84th session Texas Right to Life noted his score of 100%.  Americans for Prosperity named him a Lone Star Leader with an A rating. Dale was in the top 24 most conservative House Members on Rice University Professor Mark Jones' 2017 Liberal-Conservative Ranking and Score of Texas House of Representatives.

Third term election in 2016
Dale won his third term in the House in the general election held on November 8, 2016. With 41,643 votes (55 percent), he defeated the Democrat Paul R. Gordon, who polled 34,077 (45 percent).

2018 general election
Dale lost his bid for a fourth term in the general election held on November 6, 2018. He was unseated by the Democrat John Bucy III, who had lost the 2014 election to Dale: 41,485 votes (53.3) to 34,031 (43.8 percent). The Libertarian Party choice, Zack Parks, held another 2,253 (2.9 percent).
Passage 14:
Yavca
Yavca  is a  village in Toroslar district of Mersin Province, Turkey,  where the capital city of Toroslar district is actually a part of Greater Mersin. The village is in Toros Mountains at 37°01′N 34°23′E and the distance to Mersin city center is about 45 kilometres (28 mi) The population of Yavca was 279  as of 2012.  The main economic activity of the village is agriculture.
Passage 15:
Puğkaracadağ
Puğkaracadağ is a village in Akdeniz district of Mersin Province, Turkey, where the capital city of Akdeniz district is actually a part of Greater Mersin. The village is situated on the north of Çukurova motorway. The creek Deliçay is to the west. The village's distance to Mersin is about 20 kilometres (12 mi). The population of the village was 687 as of 2012.