Passage 1:
Benny Beaver
Benny Beaver is the official mascot of Oregon State University and winner of the 2011 Capital One Mascot of the Year write-in campaign. The exact date of when the name was first used as the university's mascot is not known, but photographs in the school's yearbook document its use as early as the 1940s.

Mascot history
The university's school newspaper is the first known organization on campus to adopt the beaver as its namesake and did so as early as 1908. The school yearbook's long use of the name, known as "The Beaver" starting in 1916, eventually helped solidify the beaver as the university's official mascot. The popularity of the beaver was also shared by students at University of Oregon. For several early publishings, students at this school also used "The Beaver" as their yearbook's title.Oregon State University's first documented use of "Benny Beaver" was found in a photograph showing students posing next to a statue of a beaver inscribed with the name "Benny Beaver." The photograph appears in the 1942 edition of the yearbook.

Prior to the beaver, Oregon State's mascot was an individual known as John Richard Newton Bell (1893–1928). A longtime member of the university's board of regents, Bell became hugely popular among the students for his ritual of marching to the Marys River after each of Oregon State's victories over Oregon. He was said to have tossed his top hat into the water as a token of celebration. Earlier mascots include "Jimmie" the Coyote (1892–1893) and "Bulldog" (1906–1910, unofficial and for specific teams only, such as the Wrestling squad). The beaver mascot's name, "Benny," was officially adopted in 1945. Two failed attempts to maintain a live beaver mascot include Bevo Beaver (rescued from Mary's River in 1921 and later stolen ) and Billy Beaver.
The early Benny Beaver "cartoon" icon/logo was created by famous graphic illustrator, and former Disney employee, Arthur C. Evans. As the art director for Angelus Pacific Company, Evans submitted his design to OSU and it was approved for use in 1951. His logos were used at hundreds of other universities and high schools throughout the nation. Evans' beaver logo also appeared in the 1985 movie Teen Wolf.
During the 1940s, students carted a beaver statue in parades throughout the state and around the stadium on game days. The statue was patterned after an earlier bronze statue that also went by the name "Benny."  Although the name "Benny" was adopted prior to the 1940s, a 1941 yearbook picture captions the statue as "Bill Beaver". The following yearbook (1942) a photo of the same beaver statue is cited with the name "Benny Beaver". After the statue's demise, the name "Benny" was regularly used in a popular sports column in The Daily Barometer - known as "The Gnawed Log."
The first live appearance during an athletic event by a mascot named "Benny", was September 18, 1952 and performed by Ken Austin. Austin later founded Newberg, Oregon-based A-dec, the largest privately held dental equipment manufacturer in North America. Austin is now a major Oregon State donor.Between the early 1980s and mid-1990s, Benny was often joined at sporting events by a co-mascot, known as "Bernice Beaver."
In 1998 No Dinx, a graphic design shop in Albany, Oregon, redesigned the logo for the first time in nearly 50 years (shown below). In March 2013, working together with Nike, Oregon State University unveiled the latest, newly redesigned version, of the Benny Beaver logo. The new logo replaced the No Dinx design. The Benny Beaver costume also changed to match the new logo in 2001. Benny wears #0 at football games and #0 at basketball games. Past numbers have included #100 (football) and #6 (basketball).
In December 2010, Benny Beaver was ranked 13th on a list titled 20 Worst Behaved Mascots Of All Time. Despite the bad press, Benny Beaver won the 2011 Capital One Mascot of the Year write-in campaign, earning the mascot program $1000 and inclusion in the following year's Capital One All-America Mascot Team.
Passage 2:
Carl Wooten Field
Carl Wooten Field is a stadium in Goodwell, Oklahoma on the campus of Oklahoma Panhandle State University. Carl Wooten Field is the home stadium for PSU's American football and track and field teams. It has also hosted local soccer matches.
The capacity of the stadium is 5,000, mostly seated in the main stand. The main stand is colored red, white, and blue and reads "OPSU" in white letters which cover the stand's central area from top to bottom.

External links
D2 Football - Carl Wooten Field
Passage 3:
Sandy Goss
Donald Alexander Goss (born 2 October 1968), nicknamed Sandy Goss, is a former competition swimmer from Canada.  Goss was a freestyle and backstroke specialist who was an Olympic silver medalist.

Early years
Goss was born in Amherst, Nova Scotia in 1968.  At the age of 8, Goss' family moved to Toronto and he began swimming for the North York Aquatic Club.  At age 11, he was a member of the Canadian tour team that traveled to Germany and won two silver medals.  At 17, Goss set a new short-course world record in the 200-metres backstroke at the Canadian Nationals.

College career
Goss received an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida, where he swam for the Florida Gators swimming and diving team in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) competition under coach Randy Reese from 1987 to 1990.  Goss, together with Duffy Dillon, Paul Robinson and Troy Dalbey, won the NCAA national championship in the 4x200-metre freestyle relay in 1987.  He also won three Southeastern Conference (SEC) individual championships in the 100-metre backstroke (1987) and the 200-metre backstroke (1987, 1988), as well as seven SEC championships as a member of winning Gators relay teams.  Goss received twenty-three All-American honors during his four-year American college swimming career.  He graduated from the University of Florida with a bachelor's degree in marketing in 1991.

International career
Goss represented Canada at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California.  In 1984, he won a silver medal with the Canadian team by swimming the freestyle anchor leg in the men's 4x100-metre medley relay.  Goss was also a member of Canada's fifth-place team in the 4x200-metre freestyle relay, and seventh-place team in the men's 4x100-metre freestyle relay.  Individually, he placed seventh in the 100-metre backstroke.Four years later, he again swam for Canada in four events at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea.  He again earned a silver medal by swimming the freestyle leg for Canada's second-place team in the 4x100-metre medley relay.  He was also a member of the Canadian eighth-place team in the 4x200-metre freestyle relay, and ninth-place team in the men's 4x100-metre freestyle relay.  In individual competition, he advanced to the semifinals of the 100-metre freestyle, and finished with the tenth best time overall.He was a double gold medalist at the 1986 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh, Scotland, winning championships in the 200-metre backstroke and 4x100-metre medley relay, and also won silver medals as a member of the second-place Canadian teams in the 4x100-metre freestyle relay and 4x200-metre freestyle relay.

Life after swimming
Goss and Jane Kerr were inducted into the Swimming Canada Circle of Excellence Hall of Fame in 2006.  He lives in Toronto with his wife Judy, with whom he has two children, including competitive swimmer Kennedy Goss, who was named to Canada's Olympic team in 2016 and won a bronze medal in the women's 4 x 200 metre freestyle relay.  As of 2006, he was working as a stock broker for Research Capital in Toronto.

See also
List of Commonwealth Games medallists in swimming (men)
List of Olympic medalists in swimming (men)
List of University of Florida alumni
List of University of Florida Olympians
Passage 4:
Goss Stadium at Coleman Field
Goss Stadium at Coleman Field is a college baseball park in the northwest United States, on the campus of Oregon State University in Corvallis, Oregon.  It is home to the Oregon State Beavers of the Pac-12 Conference. Through the 2014 season, OSU had an all-time record of 1134–474–1 (.705) at the venue.

History
The field was established in 116 years ago in 1907, with the first game on April 12. The baseball diamond was later named "Ralph Coleman Field" for the head coach who stepped down after 35 years following the 1966 season.
The Scott Halbrook Memorial Scoreboard was added to Ralph Coleman Field in 1986 in memory of the 1981 freshman outfielder, who died in a freak accident just three days prior to his first season with the Beavers.  The scoreboard remained in use until its replacement in 2006.
In the late fall of 1998, after many years of talks regarding upgrading the bleachers, concession stands, and the press box, a major remodel was undertaken, in large part due to a $2.3 million donation by John and Eline Goss.  Completed before the start of the 1999 season, the addition of the all new stadium put to rest the idea that the Beavers may not be able to continue to play at their longtime home.  With the field located in the middle of campus, there had been discussion of the land being turned over to academic uses. The first official game at Goss Stadium at Coleman field was played March 12, 1999.Lights were added to the stadium in 2002, allowing the Beavers to play their first night game at home on April 27, a 4–1 victory over the fourth-ranked Stanford Cardinal.
In the summer of 2006, after the Beavers' first national championship, a state-of-the-art scoreboard was installed, replacing the Scott Halbrook Memorial Scoreboard.  This scoreboard featured the first video replay screen in the conference.  The natural grass (and dirt) infield was replaced with FieldTurf in late 2006, in time for the 2007 season. The pitcher's mound and home plate area were the only portions that remained dirt. The basepaths and "skin" portion are FieldTurf, colored dark orange.  The home plate area at Goss Stadium was later covered with FieldTurf, leaving only the pitcher's mound with dirt.
In May 2008, the Goss Stadium expansion project which consisted of extending the stadium down the 1st and 3rd baselines, was completed.  This expansion raised the capacity from 2,000 to 3,248 spectators.  The Omaha Room, a suite overlooking the field along the first base line, was built during the expansion project.  An academic center as well as the Oregon State Baseball Hall of Fame area celebrating its rich baseball history were also added and are housed underneath the Omaha Room suite.
The official stadium capacity is currently at 3,587.  In the 2013 season, home games averaged 2,676 fans per game (24th best among Division I baseball programs) as the Beavers tied an all-time season best 27–5 record at home.In 2014, former Oregon State center fielder and MLB All-Star, Jacoby Ellsbury, donated $1 million as part of a $3 million renovation project. Construction was completed in February 2015 adding a beer garden standing deck for fans above a new home team locker room. Also in the winter of 2015, new FieldTurf was installed that covered the entire field, from the backstop to the outfield fence, removing the last remaining natural turf from Coleman Field.  The only natural surface remaining was the dirt pitchers mound.
Prior to the start of the 2016 season, the existing scoreboard was removed to accommodate the upgrade which will replace all existing scoreboard elements with one large LED videoboard that is projected to be twice as large from its predecessor.The facility has hosted 11 NCAA Regional Tournaments (1952, 1963, 2005, 2006, 2011, 2013, 2014, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2022), as well as 7 NCAA Super-Regional Tournaments (2005, 2006, 2007, 2013, 2017, 2018, 2022).  As of 2023, Oregon State has posted an impressive mark of 39–11 in postseason games at Goss Stadium at Coleman Field.

Facility
Opened over a century ago, Coleman Field is located near the center of campus and is the oldest continuous ballpark in the nation.The playing field has an unorthodox alignment, with the batter and catcher facing southeast, resulting in difficult visual conditions for the fielders on the left side of the diamond for games played near sunset. (The recommended orientation of a baseball diamond is east-northeast.) The field's elevation is approximately 240 feet (75 m) above sea level.
Since 2007, the stadium is the home field of the Corvallis Knights of the West Coast League, a collegiate summer league.

See also
List of NCAA Division I baseball venues
Passage 5:
Javelina Stadium
Javelina Stadium is a stadium in Kingsville, Texas.  It is primarily used for American football, and is the home field of Texas A&M University–Kingsville.  The stadium holds 15,000 people and opened in 1950.
A new scoreboard was installed during the 2006 football season.  The scoreboard is the largest scoreboard in NCAA Division II.  The scoreboard is 36 feet (11 m) wide and 36 feet (11 m) tall and stands 12 feet (3.7 m) off the ground.  The video display is over 15 feet (5 m) tall and 20 feet (6 m) wide.  It features a three camera system and a fully functional production room located under the east side grandstand.  It also features a new sound system.
As the home of the Javelinas, the stadium has seen Texas A&M-Kingsville win 7 National Championships in 1959, 1969, 1970, 1974, 1975, 1976, and 1979.  Also of note, the Javelinas achieved a 42-game winning streak - undefeated and untied from their last game of 1973 through the third game of 1977.
In addition to college football, the stadium serves as the home of Henrietta M. King High School's football team and is often selected as a neutral site for high school football playoff games.
From 2001 to 2011, it hosted the Cactus Bowl, an all-star game for NCAA Division II seniors.

Gallery
Passage 6:
Jim Coleman (musician)
James F. Coleman is an American musician who plays keyboards and sampler. He was a member of the 1990s noise rock band Cop Shoot Cop, and afterwards worked as a solo musician specializing in instrumental electronic music and film scores.

Biography
He was a founding member of New York's Cop Shoot Cop, and performed under a variety of stage names: Cripple Jim (he toured on crutches due to a broken leg), and usually as Filer. For most of their existence the band had two bassists and no guitar, leaving Coleman's keyboards to occupy much of the middle-frequency range normally filled by a guitarist in a rock band. Coleman's use of found sounds and other unusual noises was described as "inventive" by critics Art Black David Sprague of Trouser Press. On Release (1994), Cop Shoot Cop's final album, Coleman relied more on conventional piano playing rather than his early sample-based approach.He has recorded solo albums as Phylr and the closely related project Here (with Teho Teardo) and collaborates with JG Thirlwell as Baby Zizanie.Most recently, Coleman has released the ambient album Trees (2012) under his own name. He has been doing sporadic live shows of this material in Europe and the US.Additionally, Coleman has scored a good number of indie films and TV series. Indie features emerging in 2014 are "Exposed" by Beth B and "Stay Then Go" by Shelli Ainsworth. He has worked with directors such as Todd Phillips, Hal Hartley, Richard Kern and Danny Leitner.Coleman is currently working on a number of music tracks that are based on recordings of people's near death experiences.In 2018-2019, Coleman co-formed a new group called Human Impact.
Passage 7:
DU Stadium
DU Stadium, sometimes referred to as Hilltop Stadium, was a stadium in the western United States, located on the campus of the University of Denver in Denver, Colorado. Built 97 years ago in 1926, the crescent-shaped main grandstand design on the west sideline was based on other similar-sized stadiums from the same time period, Brown Stadium and Cornell's Schoellkopf Field, both in the Ivy League.
It hosted Denver Pioneers football until the program was discontinued in early 1961, due to mounting deficits. The stadium had a seating capacity of 30,000 at its peak, and the natural grass field had a conventional north–south orientation at an elevation of 5,350 feet (1,630 m) above sea level. Nearly half a century in age, it was torn down in the early 1970s.

Stadium history
DU played its first football game in 1885, and by 1909 had moved to a 10,000-seat grandstand in University Park. By 1924, DU football had outgrown that grandstand, and DU alumni decided to launch an ambitious public bond drive to fund a new stadium. The university broke ground for Hilltop Stadium in March 1925.

Construction
The construction costs ran just under $571,000, with the project using one million board-feet of lumber, 7,000 cubic feet (200 m3) of concrete and 295 tons of steel. Gavin Hadden, an engineer whose office was in New York City, designed the stadium; he also designed the football stadiums at Cornell, Brown, and Northwestern. The community called the new structure by the nickname “Monument to Concrete.” The famous sculptor Robert Garrison created two massive figures of athletes, one male and one female, for the stadium's main entrance as symbols of the value of coeducation and “the vitality, the vigor, and the strength of modern American youth”.
In the venue's first official game, DU defeated Colorado School of Mines 27–7. However, no regional match-up overshadowed the annual rivalry game between DU and the University of Colorado, Boulder (CU) on Thanksgiving Day. This Front Range tradition came to end when CU moved to the Big Seven Conference in 1948. The facility also hosted other sports during its history, including soccer and track and field.
The use of Hilltop Stadium extended beyond the realm of athletic competition as well: aviator Charles Lindbergh visited the Denver landmark during a parade held in his honor in 1927, several months after his solo transatlantic flight. Hilltop Stadium also hosted outdoor theater productions and DU commencement ceremonies for a number of years.
The U.S. Air Force Academy Falcons shared the stadium with DU until their new Falcon Stadium opened in Colorado Springs in 1962. Additionally, the professional Denver Broncos, a charter AFL franchise, played eleven pre-season and two early regular season games at DU stadium in the early and mid-1960s. Perhaps the most famous of those DU-hosted Bronco games was the 1967 pre-season game on August 5, when the Broncos beat the Detroit Lions in the first inter-league exhibition game. The Broncos' home venue, Bears Stadium (later renamed "Mile High"), was shared with the Triple-A Denver Bears baseball club of the American Association (and Pacific Coast League).

Demolition
The university decided to demolish Hilltop Stadium in 1971. The venue had started to crumble, and after the discontinuation of the DU football program in January 1961, a costly reconstruction of the main grandstand seemed unwarranted. Although the large crescent-shaped section on the west side was removed, the far smaller section to the east remained until 1974.
DU also needed the space for its growing intramural sports program: new plans included ten lighted tennis courts and three regulation-sized playing fields for a wide variety of sports. Today, the Benjamin F. Stapleton, Jr. Tennis Pavilion, Diane Wendt Sports Field, University of Denver Soccer Stadium and Peter Barton Lacrosse Stadium, all stand on the site of the old Hilltop Stadium.
A few remnants of the stadium remain today. The light towers now stand in working order at Englewood High School's football field, and the old line markers are housed at the Anderson Academic Commons, formerly the Penrose Library on the DU campus.

Bibliography
Fisher, Steve. “The Short, Happy Life of Hilltop Stadium.” University of Denver Magazine. Winter 2006. 3 Oct. 2008.
Haraway, Frank O. “Football.” A Tribute to Champions. Ed. Erik Prenzler. Denver: Mile High Alumni Boosters, 1985. 8-10.
Moffett, Jessie. “Statues Will Be Placed in Niches by October 25, Sculptor Announces.” The Clarion 26 September 1926: 3.
“Say Goodbye to an Oldtimer….” Communiqué (DU Faculty and Staff Publication) 21 June 1971.
Passage 8:
A League of Their Own
A League of Their Own is a 1992 American sports comedy-drama film directed by Penny Marshall that tells a fictionalized account of the real-life All-American Girls Professional Baseball League (AAGPBL). It stars Tom Hanks, Geena Davis, Madonna, Lori Petty, Rosie O'Donnell, Jon Lovitz, David Strathairn, Garry Marshall and Bill Pullman. It was written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel from a story by Kelly Candaele and Kim Wilson.
A League of Their Own was a critical and commercial success, grossing over $132.4 million worldwide and garnering acclaim for Marshall's direction and the performances of its ensemble cast. In 2012, the Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

Plot
In 1988, Dottie Hinson attends the opening of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League exhibit at the Baseball Hall of Fame. She sees many former teammates and friends, prompting a flashback to 1943.
When World War II threatens to shut down Major League Baseball, Chicago Cubs owner Walter Harvey persuades his fellow owners to bankroll a women's league. Ira Lowenstein is put in charge. Scout Ernie Capadino attends an industrial-league softball game in Oregon and likes what he sees in Dottie, the catcher for a local dairy. She is not interested; she is happy with her life while waiting for her husband Bob to return from the war. Her younger sister Kit Keller, however, is desperate to get away and make something of herself. Capadino is unimpressed by Kit's batting and refuses to watch her pitch, but agrees to take her along if she changes Dottie's mind. Dottie agrees for her sister's sake.
Dottie and Kit travel to Harvey Field in Chicago for the tryout. They meet taxi dancer Mae "All the Way Mae" Mordabito and her best friend, bouncer Doris Murphy, soft-spoken right fielder Evelyn Gardner, illiterate left fielder Shirley Baker, pitcher/shortstop and former Miss Georgia beauty queen Ellen Sue Gotlander, left field/relief pitcher Betty "Spaghetti" Horn, second baseman Marla Hooch, first baseman Helen Haley, and Alice "Skeeter" Gaspers. They and five others constitute the Rockford Peaches, while 48 others make up the Racine Belles, Kenosha Comets, and South Bend Blue Sox.
The Peaches are managed by former star Cubs slugger Jimmy Dugan, a cynical alcoholic. He initially treats the whole thing as a joke, forcing Dottie to take over as on-field leader initially. Dugan is also abrasive toward his players. The team travels with Evelyn's spoiled bratty son Stillwell and tightly wound team chaperone Miss Cuthburt. With a Life magazine photographer in the stands, Lowenstein begs the players to do something spectacular, as the league has attracted little attention. Dottie obliges, catching a popped-up ball behind home plate while doing a split. The resulting photograph makes the magazine cover. A publicity campaign draws more people to the ballgames, but the owners remain unconvinced.
The teammates bond. Marla marries a man named Nelson whom she met on a raucous roadhouse outing and leaves the team for the rest of the season, Mae teaches Shirley to read, and Evelyn writes a team song. Lowenstein makes Dottie the face of the league, making Kit resentful. Their sibling rivalry intensifies, resulting in Kit's trade to the Racine Belles.
The Peaches end the season with the league's best record, qualifying for the World Series. Jimmy gives Betty a telegram informing her that her husband was killed in action in the Pacific Theater. Grief-stricken, she leaves the team. That evening, Dottie receives a surprise when Bob shows up, having been wounded and discharged from the Army. Jimmy discovers that Dottie is going home with Bob. Unable to persuade her to play in the World Series, he tells her she will regret her decision.
The Peaches face the Belles in the World Series, which goes the full seven games. Dottie rejoins the Peaches for the seventh game, while Kit is the starting pitcher for the Belles. With the Belles leading by a run in the top of the ninth, Dottie drives in the go-ahead run. Kit is distraught, but gets a second chance when she comes to bat with two outs in the bottom of the ninth. She gets a hit and, ignoring the third base coach's sign to stop, scores the winning run by knocking her sister over at the plate and dislodging the ball from Dottie's hand.
The sellout crowd convinces Harvey to give Lowenstein the owners' support. After the game, the sisters reconcile before Dottie leaves with Bob.
In the present, Dottie is reunited with the other players, including Kit, Capadino and Lowenstein. The surviving Peaches sing Evelyn's team song and pose for a photo. During the closing credits, they play baseball at Doubleday Field.

Cast
Rockford Peaches
Others
Production
Development
Director Penny Marshall was inspired by the 1987 TV documentary A League of their Own, about the AAGPBL. She had never heard of the league, and contacted the film's creators, Kelly Candaele and Kim Wilson, to collaborate with the scriptwriters, Babaloo Mandel and Lowell Ganz, on producing a screenplay for 20th Century Fox. Fox eventually passed on the script and Marshall signed with Sony Pictures, who were eager to produce it.

Casting
On MLB Network's Costas at the Movies in 2013, director Penny Marshall talked about her initial interest in Demi Moore for the part of Dottie Hinson: "Demi Moore, I liked, but by the time we came around, she was pregnant." Debra Winger was then cast as Dottie and spent three months training with the Chicago Cubs in preparation. However, she dropped out of the production four weeks before the start of principal photography, later saying that the casting of Madonna was the reason for her decision. Marshall chose Geena Davis to replace Winger.USC assistant baseball coach Bill Hughes was the film’s technical adviser and put the film’s ensemble cast through baseball camp three months before filming.

Filming
Principal photography began July 10, 1991. Filming the game scenes involved many physical mishaps: Anne Ramsay (Helen Haley) broke her nose with a baseball mitt while trying to catch a ball, and the large bruise seen on actress Renée Coleman's thigh was real.
Discussing the skirts they wore playing in the film, Geena Davis said on MLB Network's Costas at the Movies in 2013, "Some of our real cast, from sliding into home, had ripped the skin off their legs. It was nutty." In a 2021 interview, Petty claimed to have broken her foot during filming, but reiterated her enjoyment of the shoot and the understanding of the film's importance at the time.The tryout scene, at a fictional Major League Baseball stadium in Chicago called Harvey Field, was filmed at the Chicago Cubs' home stadium, Wrigley Field. The Rockford Peaches' home games were filmed at League Stadium in Huntingburg, Indiana, and the championship game against Racine was filmed at Bosse Field in Evansville, Indiana. Additional games were filmed at Jay Littleton Ball Park in Ontario, California. The final week of shooting was during late October 1991 in Cooperstown, New York, where 65 original AAGPBL members appeared in scenes recreating the induction of the league into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1988. Due to the length of the schedule, the cast entertained themselves by putting on an elaborate amateur production, "Jesus Christ Superstar Goes Hawaiian."

Soundtrack
A League of Their Own soundtrack was released on CD and cassette tape by Columbia Records on June 30, 1992. The album peaked at #159 on the US Billboard 200 albums chart on July 25, 1992. Although Madonna contributed "This Used to Be My Playground" to the film, featured over the closing credits, her recording was not included on the soundtrack album for contractual reasons.

Reception
Box office
A League of Their Own was released on July 1, 1992, and grossed $13.2 million in its first weekend, finishing second at the box office behind Batman Returns. In its second weekend it dropped just 15%, making $11.5 million and finishing first. It ended up a commercial success, making $107.5 million in the United States and Canada, but only $24.9 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $132.4 million against a production budget of $40 million.

Critical response
The film was well received by critics, who praised the cast.
On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, it holds an approval rating of 81% based on 79 reviews, with an average score of 7/10. The website's critical consensus reads: "Sentimental and light, but still thoroughly charming, A League of Their Own is buoyed by solid performances from a wonderful cast." On Metacritic, the film received a weighted average score of 69 based 21 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A−" on an A+ to F scale.Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote: "Though big of budget, A League of Their Own is one of the year's most cheerful, most relaxed, most easily enjoyable comedies. It's a serious film that's lighter than air, a very funny movie that manages to score a few points for feminism in passing." Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave it 3 out of 4 stars and wrote: "The movie has a real bittersweet charm. The baseball sequences, we've seen before. What's fresh are the personalities of the players, the gradual unfolding of their coach and the way this early chapter of women's liberation fit into the hidebound traditions of professional baseball."

Accolades
On December 19, 2012, it was announced that A League of Their Own would be preserved in the United States National Film Registry.Jimmy Dugan's (Tom Hanks) remark to Evelyn Gardner (Bitty Schram), "There's no crying in baseball!", was ranked 54th on the American Film Institute's 2005 list AFI's 100 Years...100 Movie Quotes.

20th anniversary Blu-ray edition
A League of Their Own was released as a 20th Anniversary Edition Blu-ray on October 16, 2012.47 former AAGPBL players reunited in New York to celebrate the film and the real women who inspired it. Events included a trip to Cooperstown for a special program at the National Baseball Hall of Fame, reminiscent of the film's final scene depicting AAGPBL players and family meeting to honor the Women's Professional Baseball League. The reunion wrapped up with a game of softball held at Alliance Bank Stadium in nearby Syracuse.Former players also made an appearance at Bosse Field in Evansville, Indiana on June 6, 2012, where many of the film's game scenes were filmed. Bosse Field still retains many of the Racine Belles themes from the movie. The event included an outdoor screening of the film, and a display of cars featured in the film. In addition to Bosse Field, the production used Huntingburg, Indiana's League Stadium, another Southwestern Indiana field older than Bosse, that was renovated for it.

Spinoffs
A short-lived series of the same title based on the film aired on CBS in April 1993, with Garry Marshall, Megan Cavanagh, Tracy Reiner, Freddie Simpson, and Jon Lovitz reprising their roles. Carey Lowell took over Geena Davis's role. Only five of the six episodes made were broadcast.
On August 6, 2020, Amazon Video ordered a reboot series with the same title as the movie. The series debuted on August 12, 2022 on  Amazon. On March 14, 2023 it was announced that the rebooted series would end with a four-episode second season bringing the total number of episodes of the series to twelve after having aired eight episodes in its first season.

See also
Women in baseball
List of baseball films
Passage 9:
Linda and Terry Fuller Track
Terry and Linda Fuller Track & Field Complex is a multi-use stadium in Lubbock, Texas on the campus of Texas Tech University where it serves as home to Red Raider track and field. Formerly, it was also the home of the women's soccer team before they moved to the John Walker Soccer Complex. The stadium seats 3,500.

Usage
The 2013 Big 12 Conference Outdoor Track & Field Championship was hosted at the Terry and Linda Fuller Track & Field Complex on May 16–18, 2014.
Passage 10:
Owsley B. Frazier Stadium
Owsley B. Frazier Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium on the campus of Bellarmine University in Louisville, Kentucky. The facility serves as home to Bellarmine's soccer, field hockey, lacrosse, and track and field teams. The stadium opened on August 24, 2007 in a Bellarmine Knights women's soccer game, and was officially dedicated on August 28, 2007. Construction took approximately 18 months and was completed at an estimated cost of $5.1 million.
On February 20, 2010, the plaza area of the stadium was named after men's lacrosse coach Jack McGetrick. The plaza houses the locker rooms, concessions, and restrooms for the stadium. McGetrick started the lacrosse program at Bellarmine in 2004 and is well known throughout the lacrosse community.

Features
Owsley B. Frazier Stadium incorporates several innovative features, including:

Artificial turf. The artificial turf at the stadium has permanent markings for soccer, field hockey, and lacrosse. A complex drainage system is incorporated into the design to allow for play in all weather conditions. The "24/7" artificial field surface is named Joseph P. and Janet A. Clayton Field.
Stadium lighting. The lighting system features redirected lighting which bends spill lighting back on to the field, drastically reducing the amount of light which will fall outside the stadium's perimeter.
Track surface. The track is an eight-lane, 400-meter track, featuring three long jump pits, two pole vault areas, a high jump pit, and a steeplechase water jump pit. The surface is a dual-durometer, polyurethane poured surface provided by Beynon Sport Surfaces, the same company which has installed tracks at other top college facilities including at Illinois, Maryland, and Purdue.
Passage 11:
Skip Wilson Field
Skip Wilson Field is a baseball stadium in Ambler, Pennsylvania. It is the home field of the Arcadia University baseball team which moved to the ballfield in 2018.

Temple University
It was the home field of the Temple Owls baseball team until the end of the 2014 season, when the school cut the program.  The stadium holds 1,000 spectators and opened in 2004.  It is named after former Owls baseball coach James "Skip" Wilson.Temple played their first game at the field on March 25, 2004, and beat University of the Sciences 6-2. Four other projected home openers had been canceled due to either bad weather or poor field conditions.The field was originally called Temple's Ambler Field in reference to its location at Temple's Ambler campus. The university began to refer to the ball-field as Skip Wilson Field in 2006. On April 28, 2007, Temple University-Ambler celebrated “Skip Wilson Day" when the university officially dedicated Skip Wilson Field at Ambler in honor of the coach.Prior to Skip Wilson Field, Temple baseball played its home games at Erny Field at Mount Pleasant Avenue and Michener Street in the West Oak Lane section of Philadelphia.

See also
List of NCAA Division I baseball venues
Passage 12:
Dugout (baseball)
In baseball, the dugout is a team's bench and is located in foul territory between home plate and either first or third base. There are two dugouts, one for the home team and one for the visiting team. In general, the dugout is occupied by all players not prescribed to be on the field at that particular time, as well as coaches and other personnel authorized by the league. The players' equipment (gloves, bats, batting helmets, catcher's equipment, etc.) is usually stored in the dugout.
In baseball, the manager, with the help of his assistants, will dictate offensive strategy from the dugout by sending hand signals to the first and third base coaches. To avoid detection, the first and third base coaches will then translate those hand signals into their own set of hand signals and then send them on to the batter and runners.

Origin
The term dugout refers to the area being slightly depressed below field level, as is common in professional baseball. The prevailing theory of the origin of locating the dugouts below field level is that it allowed spectators seated behind the dugouts to see the field, specifically the home plate area. Unlike most other sports, the primary action in baseball is centered on one area – home plate – and obstructing this area from fans' view, even if by players on the bench, would not be popular with fans.

Not all dugouts are located below the field level. At the major league level, the few dugouts that are located at the field level are in multi-purpose stadiums to simplify the conversion from baseball configuration to another sports field configuration. At such ballparks, the seating area is raised such that the dugouts do not obstruct the spectators' view. Dugouts are also at field level at most amateur ballparks, where locating them below field level would be cost prohibitive or otherwise not beneficial. In these cases, the term "dugout" still applies, as does "bench." In the early days of professional baseball, the seating areas were often constructed high enough that the bench was at field level.

Variations
Most professional and collegiate ballparks feature dugouts that are below the field level, with concrete steps along the entire length of the dugout. Some feature a railing along the top step, or "lip", while others are open.
In most Major League Baseball ballparks, as well as many minor league ballparks, the dugout is directly connected to the clubhouse by a tunnel.
Most high school, Little League, and recreational ballparks feature dugouts that are at the field level, usually separated from the playing field by chain-link fencing.
Historic Cardines Field in Newport, Rhode Island, home of the Newport Gulls, features both dugouts on the first base side.

Official rules
MLB rule 3.17 specifies that "no one except players, substitutes, managers, coaches, athletic trainers and batboys shall occupy a bench during a game." The rule also stipulates that players on the disabled list are allowed in the dugout, but may not enter the field of play at any time during the game. Players and coaches who have been ejected from the game may not remain in the dugout per Rule 4.07.Unlike most other sports, where a ball or puck entering a team's bench area has already passed out of bounds and is thus dead before it reaches the bench, it is possible in baseball for a dugout to be a factor in play. MLB rule 6.05(a) states that a fielder may reach into a dugout to catch a fly ball as long as one or both feet is on or over the playing field, and does not have a foot on the ground in the dugout when making the catch. MLB universal ground rules state that the player may subsequently enter the dugout after making the catch if his momentum is carrying him that way, but if he falls in the dugout as a result, the catch is allowed but baserunners advance in accordance with Rule 7.04(c).A live ball entering a dugout becomes dead and the batter-runner and any base runners advance in accordance with Rule 7.04(c). However, a live ball bouncing off a dugout railing, if present, is still in play (unless a foul ball). Due to the dugouts' location in foul territory, live balls entering dugouts usually only occur after an errant throw by the defensive team.

Dugout choice in MLB
Which team occupies the dugout on the first-base side or the third-base side is purely arbitrary. The Major League Baseball Rulebook is silent on the subject. There are many anecdotal reasons why one dugout is chosen over the other. In the past, the manager also served as the third base coach, so occupying the third base dugout meant less walking for the manager between innings. Contrarily, the thought is that since more close plays occur at first base than third, the first base dugout is preferred. For a pre-existing facility, the home team might choose the better clubhouse and the dugout on that side of the field. (For example, prior to their 2008 move to Nationals Park, the Washington Nationals occupied the third-base dugout at RFK Stadium because it was the larger and newer of the two dugouts.) Another factor can be the sun angle during day games. In ballparks where one of the dugouts faces direct sunlight for much of the game, which can be problematic on hot summer days, the home club might choose the dugout that is better shaded.
In both the National League and American League, more home team dugouts are on the first-base side (9 to 6 each). Even the two oldest parks still in use differ on this point: the Cubs sit on the third-base side at Wrigley while the Red Sox inhabit the first-base dugout at Fenway. Due to the ballpark's orientation, at Wrigley the third-base dugout faces away from the sun from noon onward, whereas the first base dugout faces sunlight in the late innings. At Fenway, the third-base dugout faces the sun for part of a day game, while the first-base dugout remains shaded.

See also

Bullpen
Technical area
Passage 13:
Ramblin' Wreck
The Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech is the 1930 Ford Model A Sport coupe that serves as the official mascot of the student body at the Georgia Institute of Technology. The Wreck is present at all major sporting events and student body functions. Its most noticeable role is leading the football team into Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field, a duty which the Wreck has performed since 1961. The Ramblin' Wreck is mechanically and financially maintained on campus by students in Ramblin' Reck Club.
The first mechanical Wreck was a 1914 Ford Model T owned by Dean Floyd Field. Until the current Wreck was donated to the school in 1961, most of the early Ramblin' Wrecks were owned by students, faculty or alumni. The modern Wreck has donned a number of different paint jobs and has had several restorations and modifications made to it. These changes were made by various individuals and organizations over the years, including Bobby Dodd and Georgia Tech Alumnus Pete George, who worked at the Ford plant in Hapeville, Georgia. The upkeep of the Wreck has been the sole responsibility of Ramblin' Reck Club and the Wreck driver since 1987.
The Ramblin' Wreck has been the target of several pranks perpetrated by rival schools; the University of Tennessee once provided the Wreck with an unsolicited new paint job, and the University of Georgia has stolen the Wreck on at least two occasions. Several replica or "false" Wrecks are owned by alumni, or are used for display and do not run. The official Ramblin' Wreck is considered the only "true" Wreck, and no backups or replacements exist.

History
The term "Ramblin' Wreck" has been used to refer to students and alumni of Georgia Tech much longer than the car that now bears the name has been in existence. The expression has its origins in the late 19th century and was used originally to refer to the makeshift motorized vehicles constructed by Georgia Tech engineers employed in projects in the jungles of Central America. The Wrecks were constructed from whatever the engineers could find—mostly old tractor and automotive parts—and were kept running by the engineers' ingenuity and creativity. Other workers in the area began to refer to these vehicles and the men who drove them as "Rambling Wrecks from Georgia Tech."The first "mechanical mascot" at Georgia Tech was a 1914 Ford Model T owned by Dean Floyd Field. Field drove the car to and from class every day from 1916 until 1928.  Field cared so much for the car that he even nicknamed it "Nellie". The vehicle was distinguished by its metallic black paint job and a large black box fastened to the rear end by a buggy wheel hoop. The black box's contents were never revealed to the student body and the box became part of the mystique of the Old Ford.The student body initially nicknamed the vehicle "Floyd's Flivver" but eventually began to call the car the "Ramblin' 'Reck."  The first mention of Field's Ford as a Ramblin' 'Reck was in 1926 when he performed an overhaul of the car's engine, body, and paint job with the help of the campus machine shop.Dean Field found a love for travel with his Model T. He took it all the way to California for seminars on mathematics and education. However, in 1927 rumors began to abound campus that Field was going to buy a Model A. Field quelled the rumors with a personal interview in the last issue of the 1927 Technique. By September 1928, Field felt he could not travel as much with the dilapidated Model T. To the dismay of the student body the vehicle was discarded by Dean Field in 1928 and a Model A was purchased. Field's Model A lasted until 1934 in which he bought a Ford V8. He would drive over 122,000 miles (196,300 km) in all three cars during his Georgia Tech tenure of 1900–1945.
In memoriam to his retired "Tin Lizzie", Dean Field started "an Old Ford Race" from the intersection of North Avenue and Techwood Drive in Atlanta to the intersection of Hills Street and Prince Avenue in Athens. The race was sponsored by the Technique, which nicknamed the event the "Flying Flivver Race." The finish line was facilitated by the University of Georgia student newspaper The Red and Black. The only rule of the race was that the car had to be a pre-1926 4-cylinder motor car. The fastest time in the race was achieved by an Essex which completed the 79-mile (126 km) race in 1 hour and 26 minutes or 55 mph (88 km/h).The Tech administration disliked the perilous race and reduced the race to a more peaceful and regulated parade of contraptions known as the Ramblin' Wreck Parade after races were completed in 1929 and 1930. The Yellow Jacket Club facilitated the first official Ramblin' Wreck parade in 1932.  The only break in the parade's continuous operation occurred with the onset of World War II.  There were no parades from 1942 to 1943 and when the parade did continue in 1944, all Wrecks had to be human powered.  In 1946, the Ramblin' Wreck Parade was allowed to operate combustion engines again.  The rules instituted in the 1946 Wreck Parade still remain as the parade has become the featured event for all Tech homecomings.

Mascot for students
Dean of Student Affairs Jim Dull recognized a need for an official Ramblin' Wreck when he observed the student body's fascination with classic cars. Fraternities, in particular, would parade around their House Wrecks as displays of school spirit and enthusiasm. It was considered a rite of passage to own a broken down vehicle.In 1960, Dull began a search for a new official symbol to represent the institute. He specifically wanted a classic pre-war Ford. Dull's search would entail newspaper ads, radio commercials, and other means to locate this vehicle. The search took him throughout the state and country, but no suitable vehicle was found until the autumn of 1960. Dean Dull spotted a polished 1930 Ford Model A outside of his apartment located in Towers Dormitory. The owner was Captain Ted J. Johnson, Atlanta's chief Delta Air Lines pilot.Johnson had purchased the car from a junkyard in 1956. Johnson and his son, Craig, would restore the car as a father-son project while Craig attended the Georgia Military Academy. The two spent two years and over $1,800 restoring the vehicle. Johnson used spare parts from many different sources to refurbish the rusty hulk. He bought the mahogany dash from a parts dealer in Caracas, Venezuela and used Convair 440 aluminum sheets to replace the flooring. After Craig graduated from high school, he attended Florida State on a track scholarship. In 1960, Craig's track team would be in Atlanta competing against Tech. Johnson, wanting to see his son compete, took the Model A to Tech campus, parked it near Towers dormitory, and went to watch Craig compete.When Johnson returned to his car, he found a note from Dean Dull attached to his windshield. Dull's note offered to purchase the car to serve as Georgia Tech's official mascot. Johnson, after great deliberation, agreed to take $1,000, but eventually returned the money in 1984 so that the car would be remembered as an official donation to Georgia Tech and the Alexander-Tharpe Fund. The Ramblin' Wreck was officially transferred to the Athletic Association on May 26, 1961.The Ramblin' Wreck was unveiled September 30, 1961, at Grant Field in front of 43,501 Tech fans, as it led the team onto the field against Rice University. The team prevailed 24–0 and the Wreck became an instant success within the Tech family.
The Wreck has since led the team onto the field for every home game.

Bobby Dodd's restorations
The current color scheme was selected in 1974 by then athletic director and former head coach Bobby Dodd. The original Wreck decor featured a wooden GT shield on both the driver- and passenger-side doors. This shield was removed during Dodd's revitalization of the old Model A. Dodd chose an old gold paint from a Lincoln car paint catalogue as the base for the new color scheme. He also placed a slightly stretched GT emblem on the door, a Tech helmet on the rear quarter panel, and a 1952 version of the Yellow Jacket on the front quarter panel. According to Tech lore, Bobby Dodd was so enamored with the Lincoln gold, he changed the football helmet and uniform color to match the new Ramblin' Wreck paint scheme.The biggest structural change was a support system attached to the car's frame. The support system runs the length of the running boards and allows the increased weight of cheerleaders or Reck Club members standing on the running boards.

Pete George's restorations
From 1973 to 1987, 1947 IE alum Pete George maintained the Ramblin' Wreck at the Hapeville Ford Plant. George would mastermind the 1974 change of colors as well as a major refurbishment of the Wreck in 1982 in time for Georgia Tech's 1985 centennial celebration. The car was completely disassembled, rebuilt, and repainted by late 1982.There were a few noticeable changes to the Ramblin' Wreck after the 1982 refurbishment. An aftermarket chrome stone guard was added to protect the grill, The emblems on the side were removed and replaced by a basic GT decal on the doors. The 1952 Yellow Jackets were moved to the front tire wells. The white horn was chromed over. The old tire cover was a shield with a football helmet wearing yellow jacket. This was replaced with a white generic naugahyde Ford tire cover. The blackwall tires and brakes were replaced with whitewall tires and modified brakes.
The Wreck experienced a major transition of ownership after the Centennial Celebration. Since Reck Club had financially maintained the vehicle for so long and Reck Club fell under the dean of students rather than the athletic association, the vehicle was sold from the athletic association to the institute for zero dollars in 1987. The transaction further solidified Reck Club's responsibilities over the car but also made the car more than simply a football mascot. The Old Ford was officially an institute icon.

Post-centennial restoration and change of ownership
After Pete George's retirement in 1987, the upkeep of the Wreck fell directly upon the shoulders of the Wreck Drivers and Reck Club. In 1994, the Hapeville Plant ended their relationship with Reck Club. Since then, the Wreck has been student maintained with the assistance of local Atlanta garages. The Wreck has had numerous mechanical and cosmetic repairs over the years since Pete George's initial full rebuild.After 1994, Reck Club restored the wheels and brakes to original Model A specifications. Reck Club performed a major off body restoration in the Spring of 2000 that saw the car repainted and the engine rebuilt. Pete George, although several years retired, aided Reck Club in its restoration providing funding and labor to the 2000 restoration. After the restoration, a small modification replaced the electrical generator with a more efficient Nu-Rex alternator.

2007 highway accident
Reck Club coordinated their second major restoration following damage incurred during a highway accident on June 22, 2007, on Interstate 75 in Monroe County, about 60 miles south of Atlanta. Though trailered, the crash caused severe damage to the body and top of the Ramblin' Wreck, while the Ford Expedition and trailer in tow were both wrecked. Fourth-year Polymer, Textile, and Fiber Engineering major John Bird was driving, with his younger brother Matt, and recalled for the press:

Something in the trailer failed, and the trailer pulled us off the road going 70 miles an hour. We went perpendicular to the lanes of traffic, and we crashed into a ditch on the side of the road... There wasn’t any fishtailing... The trailer just snapped and made a 90 degree turn, and I just said ‘Matt, hold on’ and we hit the ditch. The whole thing lasted about 2 seconds... The left side is smashed up pretty good and the roof is torn up... but the motor is fine and all the wheels are fine."
Bird had stated that both his brother and he got whiplash from the crash, one of Matt's legs was bruised, and "it also could have
been a lot worse."

Modern role of the Wreck
The Ramblin' Wreck has led the Yellow Jacket football team onto Grant Field almost 300 games. It also makes appearances for other Georgia Tech sports teams: it is often seen before big basketball games at Hank McCamish Pavilion, occasionally parked outside of Russ Chandler Stadium during warm weekend baseball series, and has attended several softball games a year at the new mid-campus stadium.A symbol of the institute's academic and collegiate tradition, the old Model A is often dispatched to special events on campus. It is always present when new buildings are opened or dedicated. On December 5, 2006, the Wreck became the first car to drive across the new Fifth Street Bridge.Every spring, the Institute holds a ceremony, known as When the Whistle Blows, to honor students, staff, and faculty who died during the previous year. The Georgia Tech Whistle is blown once for each person who died, and once more to salute Georgia Tech alumni and friends who may also have died. A procession of the military escort, led by the Ramblin' Wreck, leads up to the ceremony, during which the Wreck is parked next to the speaker's stage.During Tech Homecoming, the Ramblin' Wreck has several duties. Several days before Homecoming, it acts as a giant gold starter pistol for the Mini 500 tricycle race. The Wreck's next task is to lead the racers out of the starting line in the Freshman Cake Race. On the day of the Homecoming football game, the Wreck leads the Ramblin' Wreck Parade, then leads the football team onto the field.The car is also present at every Freshman Orientation (FASET), Earth Day festival, and other campuswide events.A ride in the Wreck serves as a gift to many retiring faculty and staff; a ride onto Grant Field is one of the greatest honors Georgia Tech can bestow. Kim King, for example, received this honor on October 2, 2004, during halftime of the Miami game.

Wreck traditions and specifications
There are several lesser known details about the Wreck that are easily missed when it rambles down Techwood Drive. Specific physical details and the actual person behind the wheel are often missed or overlooked. The Wreck is financially maintained through Ramblin' Reck Club appearances and fundraisers. There is no official source of funding from the institute, Athletic Association, or Alumni Association. This gives the Wreck a unique level of independence that is atypical amongst college mascots.When a freshman first reaches campus for FASET (orientation), one of the many traditions that they are introduced to is that freshmen cannot touch the Wreck until the completion of their first year.  This rule originated in the 1963 edition of the RAT Rules. If a freshman touches the Wreck between convocation and the last day of classes in the Spring, they will receive bad luck throughout their college career and GT will be cursed to lose to UGA in football that year.The Wreck is distinguished by its old gold body and white soft top. The soft top has a chrome support strut, which features a brass classic Tech T and 1952 yellow jacket. The body also has two solid white runningboards, which run the length of the vehicle. The running boards support cheerleaders or the occasional Tech student looking for a ride. The interior upholstery is solid white vinyl. The gear shifter knob is a white globe with the classic Tech T painted on it. There are two golden nylon pennants emblazoned with the words "To Hell With Georgia" and "Give 'Em Hell Tech" fastened to the front bumper.

Driver
The driver of the Ramblin' Wreck is an elected position within Ramblin' Reck Club. This position is determined after every football season. The driver manages the car's public appearances and maintenance. There have only been 46 drivers of the Wreck, making the position of Wreck driver one of the most prestigious positions in all of Georgia Tech's student organizations.The driver gets to add their own personal touch every year to the Wreck. The front license plate is chosen by the driver every year and the radiator cap is replaced yearly, as well. The cap is typically a flying quail or a wreath. After each driver's term, the driver gets to keep the two pennants, too.
Dean Dull initiated a group known as the Ramblin' Wreck Committee of the Student Council to aid in his search for a mascot. When the Wreck was found in 1961, the Ramblin' Wreck Committee was chaired by Dekle Rountree. Rountree would drive the Wreck for school functions and Student Council fundraisers. He was also the first person to drive the Ramblin' Wreck onto Grant Field. Don Gentry, the president of Reck Club in 1961, was the first student to drive the Wreck as he aided in retrieving the Model A from Ted Johnson's home. The Wreck was always maintained by Reck Club but the complete transition of control occurred between 1964 and 1967. During this period, Reck Club was relieved of its RAT rules enforcement duties and given more wholesome jobs of maintaining the Wreck, upholding traditions, and generating school spirit.
Four women have officially driven the Ramblin' Wreck in its history. Lisa Volmar, an industrial engineering major, was elected the driver in 1984 and she was the first female driver after 23 consecutive years of male-only drivers.

Reck or Wreck
The name can be spelled either Ramblin' Reck or Ramblin' Wreck. In all spellings, there is no g in Ramblin'. The first references to the 1930 Model A (1961) spelled the word Reck while the first references to the 1914 Model T owned by Dean Field spelled the word 'Reck (1925). Ramblin' Reck Club has spelled the word Reck since their 1945 club charter. The institute has adopted the spelling Ramblin' Wreck and holds a trademark on the phrase. Reck Club still refers to the Ramblin' Wreck as the Ramblin' Reck while most other agencies refer to it as the Ramblin' Wreck.

Travelin' Wreck
In its history, the Wreck has appeared at a number of away games and other events away from the Georgia Tech campus. Many of these trips resulted in damage to the Reck or other interesting anecdotes.
The first away game for the Ramblin' Wreck was the 1961 game against the Alabama Crimson Tide. The Wreck was freighted by Southern Railway to Birmingham, Alabama. At the time, Alabama played its home games at Legion Field. Before the game, the current driver Dekle Rountree decided to traverse the slope up to visit Birmingham's Vulcan statue. The trip to Birmingham was such a success, a trip to Jacksonville for Tech's Gator Bowl appearance against Penn State was organized, as well. These were the first road and bowl game appearances for the Wreck in its illustrious career.In 1963, the Ramblin' Wreck Committee and Ramblin' Reck Club organized another road trip for the Wreck. This trip took the Wreck up to Knoxville for a game against the Tennessee Volunteers. After Tech won the game, the Wreck was stored overnight in Neyland Stadium. Administrators and Tennessee's Athletic Director Bob Woodruff promised Georgia Tech Athletics that the Wreck would be safe. They were wrong. Tennessee students broke into the storage area and painted the Wreck orange. They wrote "Go Vols" in the paint and covered the gold wheels with paint, as well. After the incident, Georgia Tech sent a bill to Tennessee's Athletic Department asking for restitution.  Woodruff was believed to have  aided the students in their efforts after he openly contested the officiating of the football contest.In 1976, Tech students took the Wreck to Athens for the annual football game with UGA. After the game, the Wreck's police escort abandoned the car. The vehicle appeared relatively unprotected and was approached by UGA students attempting to vandalize it. The Tech students responsible for the car's safekeeping frightened the encroaching Bulldog fans away by producing a concealed 9 mm pistol.The farthest trips the Ramblin' Wreck has ever traveled from Atlanta were the 1970 Sun Bowl in El Paso, Texas, and Denver, Colorado, in 1990 for Tech's NCAA Final Four appearance against UNLV. The Wreck was freighted by van 1,400 miles (2,250 km) to Denver Coliseum. Along the way, a television crew documented the trip and broadcast the Wreck's expedition during the Final Four promotions.
The last major road trips for the Ramblin' Wreck were to the 2004 Final Four in San Antonio, the 2006 ACC Championship Game in Jacksonville, Florida, and the 2009 ACC Championship Game in Tampa's Raymond James Stadium.
 The Wreck led the Yellow Jacket football team onto Alltel Stadium's field for Tech's first appearance in the ACC title game, as well as performing the same duty in their second appearance and first win in the ACC championship game in 2009. The Wreck has also been to the Orange Bowl, Gator Bowl, All-American Bowl, Sun Bowl, Peach Bowl, Citrus Bowl, and Champs Sports Bowl.On June 15, 2007, the Wreck was involved in an accident while being towed to a wedding south of Atlanta in a covered car trailer. The trailer failed while carrying the Wreck, in turn causing the truck and trailer to run off the road and into the roadside ditch. The Wreck fell over inside the trailer, causing damage to its side and roof. Despite the severe body damage (in excess of $30,000), the Wreck was repaired for the first game of the 2007 season against the Samford Bulldogs.

In the media
In 1987, the Ramblin' Wreck and Dean Jim Dull were featured on ABC-TV's morning show. Dean Dull shouted into the camera, "I'm Dean of Students Jim Dull and I'm a Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech. Good Morning, America!" Dull was on the show because he had won a make-a-wish contest. All he wanted was for the Ramblin' Wreck, gold-clad students, and himself to be on the ABC morning show and ABC granted the wish.The Ramblin' Wreck has been featured in several newspapers, magazines, and books. The Ramblin' Wreck is portrayed leading the Georgia Tech football team onto the field on the cover of Al Thomy's 1973 work Ramblin' Wreck – A Story of Georgia Tech Football. Pete George's 1982 refurbishment was featured in the November 1983 edition of the Ford Times. The June 1986 edition of Cars & Parts Magazine featured the Ramblin' Wreck and the raffle for the Centennial Wreck. The December 1991 Car Collector & Car Classics featured the Wreck on the cover after the National Championship season. The December 2007 Bellsouth Real White Pages for Greater Atlanta featured the Ramblin' Wreck with censored flags.The Ramblin' Wreck has been featured numerous times in Tech's student newspaper, The Technique, and Atlanta's primary newspaper, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The Wreck has also been featured in The New York Times and the Associated Press. Local newspapers such as the Cherokee Times, Augusta Chronicle, and Gwinnett Daily Post have also printed articles about the Wreck.In the week prior to the 2007 home opener, the Ramblin' Wreck was featured on ESPN First Take. ESPN showed old clips of the Wreck leading the football team onto the field and discussed the possibility of the Wreck not making the football opener after 45 consecutive years of never missing a game.The Ramblin' Wreck was featured prominently on the October 18, 2007 episode of Jim Cramer's Mad Money. Cramer exited the Wreck's passenger door to start the show and one of Cramer's trademark soundboards was attached to the front bumper.On April 16, 2009, a Georgia Tech student riding on the running board of the Ramblin' Wreck fell and suffered severe head injuries hospitalizing the student for four days.  Almost a year later, the student filed suit against Georgia Tech and an auto shop responsible for installing handles on the roof of the car.  The lawsuit cites the failure of the auto shop's handles as the reason for the fall and claims the University promoted the unsafe use of a vehicle by students. In September 2013, the student injured in the April 2009 accident, won a settlement of $1.36 million from the Georgia Board of Regents and Eco-Clean, Inc.The 2012 edition of EA Sports' NCAA football video game featured the addition of the Ramblin' Wreck leading Georgia Tech's football team onto the field at all games played in Bobby Dodd Stadium.  The Ramblin' Wreck was included in the game alongside many other colleges' pre-game traditions to "deliver the pride and pageantry of game day".

Ramblin' replicas
Several vehicles  claim "Ramblin' Wreck status." However, only one car is the official Ramblin' Wreck, with no backups or equivalent vehicles.The most famous of the fake Wrecks is a 1931 Ford Model A Cabriolet known as the Centennial Wreck. This vehicle was refurbished along with the real Wreck in 1985. The vehicle followed the Ramblin' Wreck onto the field all of the 1985 football season and was raffled for $250,000 by Pete George and Georgia Tech in 1986.
In 1988, the Alumni Association purchased a 1931 Ford Model A Roadster and restored the vehicle again in 1994. The Alumni Wreck is distinguished by its spare tire locations on the driver's side and passenger-side runningboards and the words "Georgia Tech Alumni Association" printed on the doors. It also has a convertible top. On the real Wreck, the spare is behind the rumble seat and the roof cannot be removed or lowered.
A 1930 Ford Model A Sports Coupe shell is kept in the Georgia Tech Hotel. This car has not worked since it has been on campus. The motor is incomplete and the front end lacks the Wreck's chrome stone guard. This is one of the few replicas that is almost identical in make, model, and paint scheme when compared to the real Ramblin' Wreck.
Also, several alumni-owned vehicles are painted to resemble the Wreck. These vehicles mimic the look and feel of the car, but are not the Ramblin' Wreck. One of the most famous instances of mistaken identity occurred in 1988. A father-son duo of Georgia Tech alumni attempted to lead the Tech football team onto the field at Sanford Stadium in Athens. After getting inside of the stadium with their gold 1924 Ford Model T, the two were finally stopped by Georgia officials, who were informed the real Ramblin' Wreck had remained in Atlanta.
Several B-17 Flying Fortresses and B-24 Liberators and at least one F4U Corsair were designated the name Ramblin' Wreck during service in World War II.
The Chicago Brewing Company features an amber ale by the name of Ramblin' Wreck Amber Ale.
The Savoy Automobile Museum in Cartersville, GA features a Ramblin' Wreck replica in their permanent collection

See also
Clean, Old-Fashioned Hate – the rivalry between Tech and UGA
Georgia Tech traditions – a comprehensive list of Georgia Tech Traditions
Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech – the fight song of Georgia Tech
WREK FM – the college radio station of Georgia Tech, whose name and callsign comes directly from the ReckOther student-owned vintage and veteran vehicles:

Jezebel – a 1916 Dennis Fire Engine at Imperial College London
A 1929 Dennis Charabanc owned by Southampton University
A 1902 James and Browne car and 1926 Ner-a-Car owned by the City and Guilds College
A 1926 Morris truck owned by the Royal School of MinesSimilar vehicular mascots at other universities:

The Boilermaker Special –   A replica locomotive built on a truck chassis which has served as the official mascot of Purdue University since 1940.
The Sooner Schooner – a pioneering wagon and a symbol of the University of Oklahoma
Passage 14:
Bangalore Hockey Stadium
Bangalore Hockey Stadium, also known as KSHA Hockey Stadium, is a field hockey stadium at Akkithimmanahalli, Bangalore, Karnataka, India. It is the home of the Karnataka Lions of the World Series Hockey. It has a seating capacity of 7,000 people.
The stadium hosted seven home matches of Karnataka Lions in World Series Hockey. It will also host the first semi-final of World Series Hockey in 2012.

History
Akkithimmanhalli lake was breached in the 1970s as part of a Malaria Eradication Drive and the Hockey stadium constructed in its place.
Passage 15:
Negoesco Stadium
Negoesco Stadium is a 3,000 seat soccer stadium located in San Francisco, on the campus of University of San Francisco. The facility was named in honour of USF soccer coach Steve Negoesco. The stadium is also used by USF students and staff for recreational activities.

Stadium history
The stadium was renovated in 2000 expanding it to its current capacity of 3,000 seats including theater style seats on the west side of the field and a full permanent grandstand on the east side. Additionally TV capable lights were added to the field that year. In 2003 the current fieldturf surface was added.

Negoesco has also hosted a US Open Cup game between the Los Angeles Galaxy and San Jose Earthquakes of Major League Soccer and an international friendly between the Earthquakes and Shanghai Shenhua of the Chinese Super League.
Some of the most notable improvements were made in September 2008, just before the Dons began their season, as banners celebrating the rich legacy and tradition of USF Soccer were hung along the stadiums west wall. Six national championship banners hang alongside 2 national runner-up banners and alongside banners celebrating the Dons glorious postseason past (30 NCAA appearances, 9 College Cup appearances).  Additional banners also feature USF conference titles as members of the Northern California Intercollegiate Soccer Conference/West Coast Intercollegiate Soccer Conference, Pacific Soccer Conference, and the West Coast Conference. A final banner will feature the names of all 41 NSCAA All-Americans to proudly wear the Green and Gold.
Other changes include the installation of advertising panels acknowledging sponsors and supporters of USF Athletics and the Dons Soccer program alongside the east sideline of the field, and European-style protective team benches, were also added to the technical areas on the east sideline.