Passage 1:
Red Dragon (2002 film)
Red Dragon is a 2002 psychological thriller film based on the 1981 novel by Thomas Harris. It was directed by Brett Ratner and written by Ted Tally. It is the third film of the Dino De Laurentiis Company production, last produced by Universal and last starred by actor Anthony Hopkins. It follows The Silence of the Lambs (1991) and Hannibal (2001) as a prequel, being followed by Hannibal Rising (2007). The film sees FBI agent Will Graham (Edward Norton) enlisting the help of serial killer Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to catch another killer, Francis Dolarhyde (Ralph Fiennes). Harvey Keitel, Emily Watson, Mary-Louise Parker, and Philip Seymour Hoffman also star.
It is considered the fourth of the five released films regarding Hannibal Lecter. The novel was previously adapted into the film Manhunter (1986). Both films feature the same cinematographer, Dante Spinotti. After turning down the Silence of the Lambs sequel, Hannibal (2001), Silence of the Lambs screenwriter Ted Tally returned to write Red Dragon. It was released on October 4, 2002 to generally positive reviews from critics, who deemed it to be an improvement over Hannibal, but inferior to The Silence of the Lambs.      It was a box office success, earning $209 million worldwide against a $78 million budget. An origin story, titled Hannibal Rising was released in 2007.

Plot
In 1980, FBI agent Will Graham visits forensic psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter to discuss a case. Graham has been working with Lecter on a psychological profile of a serial killer who removes edible body parts from his victims; Graham is certain the killer is a cannibal. Realizing Graham is close to discovering he is the killer, Lecter stabs him, but Graham subdues him before falling unconscious. Lecter is imprisoned in an institution for the criminally insane, and Graham, traumatized, retires to Florida with his family.
Years later, in 1986, another serial killer nicknamed the Tooth Fairy has killed two families – the Jacobis and the Leeds – during full moons. With another full moon approaching, special agent Jack Crawford persuades Graham to help develop the killer's profile. After visiting the crime scenes in Atlanta, Georgia, and Birmingham, Alabama, and speaking with Crawford, Graham concludes that he must consult Lecter. Lecter taunts Graham but agrees to help.

The Tooth Fairy is Francis Dolarhyde, who kills as directed by his alternate personality, which he calls the Great Red Dragon, named after the William Blake painting The Great Red Dragon and the Woman Clothed in Sun, which he has tattooed on his back. He believes that each victim brings him closer to becoming the Dragon, as his psychopathology originates from his childhood abuse by his grandmother.
Freddy Lounds, a tabloid reporter for the National Tattler, pursues Graham for leads on the Tooth Fairy. A letter from the Tooth Fairy is discovered hidden in Lecter's cell, expressing admiration for Lecter and an interest in Graham and suggesting that Lecter reply through the personals section of the Tattler, which he does with Graham's home address, forcing Graham's wife, Molly, and son, Josh, to relocate. While in hiding, Graham teaches Molly how to fire a handgun.
To lure out the Tooth Fairy, Graham gives an interview to Lounds, disparaging the killer as an impotent homosexual and that Lecter was only feigning interest in him. Enraged, Dolarhyde kidnaps Lounds, glues him to a wheelchair and reveals himself as the Great Red Dragon. Dolarhyde shows Lounds photos he took of his victims before and after he murdered them. Dolarhyde forces Lounds to recant his allegations on tape, sets him on fire and sends him rolling and crashing into a company sign outside the Tattler offices.
At his job in a St. Louis photo lab, Dolarhyde gives blind co-worker Reba McClane a ride to her home and they begin a relationship. However, his alternate personality demands that he kill her. Desperate to stop the Dragon's control over him, Dolarhyde goes to the Brooklyn Museum, tears apart the Blake painting, and eats it.
Graham realizes that the Tooth Fairy knew the layout of his victims' houses from their home videos. He deduces that he works for the company that edits the home movies and transfers them to video. He visits the company processing plant to ask for information, and is spotted by Dolarhyde as he returns from Brooklyn.
In a panic, Dolarhyde goes to Reba's house. She has spent the evening with a co-worker, Ralph Mandy. After Reba enters her home, Dolarhyde kills Ralph, kidnaps Reba, takes her to his house, and sets it ablaze. Unable to shoot her, Dolarhyde apparently shoots himself. Reba escapes as the police arrive.
After an autopsy is performed on the corpse, it is revealed that Dolarhyde used Ralph's body to stage his death. Dolarhyde later infiltrates Graham's home in Florida and takes Josh hostage, threatening to kill him. To save Josh, Graham loudly insults him, reminding Dolarhyde of his grandmother's abuse and provoking him to furiously attack Graham. Both are severely wounded in a shootout, which ends when Molly kills Dolarhyde.
Graham survives and receives a letter from Lecter praising his work and bidding him well. Lecter's jailer, Dr. Frederick Chilton, tells him that he has a visitor, a young woman from the FBI.

Cast
Production
The 1991 film The Silence of the Lambs, starring Anthony Hopkins as Lecter, was a critical and commercial success, winning five Academy Awards. Hopkins was the only major member of the Silence of the Lambs team to return for the 2001 sequel, Hannibal; it was also a commercial success, but received less positive reviews. Both films were adapted from novels by Thomas Harris.Husband-and-wife producers Dino and Martha De Laurentiis decided to produce a film based on the 1981 novel Red Dragon, the first Hannibal Lecter novel, as a prequel to The Silence of the Lambs. Dino said that people thought he was "crazy" for adapting the book, as it had been previously adapted as Manhunter (1986), with Brian Cox as Lecter. Both Manhunter and Red Dragon had the same cinematographer, Dante Spinotti.Hopkins hesitated to sign on, worried that three Lecter films might be too much. Screenwriter Ted Tally, who wrote The Silence of the Lambs but not Hannibal, had turned down many offers to write more serial killer stories. He said he liked the idea of Hopkins' Lecter films forming a trilogy: "If it ends here, it will end gracefully. I would hate to see this become Hannibal Lecter XIII." To satisfy expectations, Tally added Lecter scenes not in the novel, describing it as a "commercial reality". He had the support of Harris, who sent Tally dialogue and ideas for scenes. Edward Norton and Ralph Fiennes admired The Silence of the Lambs but had not enjoyed Hannibal. The cast were persuaded to join by Tally's screenplay; Fiennes felt it worked "only on suspense", without overt violence.Norton and Ratner disagreed on the scene in which Graham approaches the incarcerated Lecter for the first time. Ratner wanted Norton to incorporate a gesture or look to indicate Graham's fear, but Norton felt the audience would not need this if it were filmed correctly. They compromised by showing Graham's sweat stains when he removes his jacket in the next scene. Whereas Fiennes wanted to avoid overplaying his serial killer character, Hopkins aimed to play Lecter with more "danger and rage" than before. Fiennes spent 90 minutes of each day for months building his physique, and wore a prosthetic to give him a cleft palate. The tattoo on his back took around eight hours to apply.

Soundtrack
Red Dragon: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack was composed by Danny Elfman, and produced by Mark Helfrich and Brett Ratner. Decca Records released it on September 24, 2002, in the United States and Canada.

Reception
Box office
Red Dragon was released on October 4, 2002, and opened in 3,357 theaters in the United States, grossing $13,478,355 on its opening day and $36,540,945 on its opening weekend, ranking #1 ahead of Sweet Home Alabama with a per theater average of $10,885. It went on to achieve the highest October opening weekend, beating Meet the Parents. This record was surpassed by Scary Movie 3 the following year. On its second weekend, it remained #1 and grossed $17,655,750 – $5,250 per theater. By its third weekend it dropped down to #3 and made $8,763,545 – $2,649 per theater.In the UK, Red Dragon collected $4.6 million during its opening weekend, ranking in first place at the box office above Lilo & Stitch.Red Dragon grossed $93,149,898 in the United States and Canada and $116,046,400 in other territories. In total, the film has grossed $209,196,298 worldwide.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 69% based on 191 reviews, with an average rating of 6.40/10. The site's consensus said the film is "competently made, but everything is a bit too familiar". On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 60 out of 100, based on 36 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A−" on an A+ to F scale.Richard Corliss of Time gave the film a positive review, stating: "This darkly seductive, flawlessly acted piece is worlds removed from most horror films. Here monsters have their grandeur, heroes their gravity. And when they collide, a dance of death ensues between two souls doomed to understand each other." Todd McCarthy of Variety also gave the film a positive review, saying that the "audiences will be excused for any feelings of déjà vu the new film might inspire. That won't prevent them from watching it in rapt, anxious silence, however, as the gruesome crimes, twisted psychology and deterministic dread that lie at the heart of Harris' work are laid out with care and skill."Roger Ebert of Chicago Sun-Times gave the film 3.5 out of four, praising Brett Ratner's directing and the film's atmosphere. He stated: "To my surprise, Ratner does a sure, stylish job, appreciating the droll humor of Lecter's predicament, creating a depraved new villain in the Tooth Fairy (Ralph Fiennes), and using the quiet, intense skills of Norton to create a character whose old fears feed into his new ones. There is also humor, of the uneasy he-can't-get-away-with-this variety, in the character of a nosy scandal-sheet reporter (Philip Seymour Hoffman)." David Sterritt of the Christian Science Monitor gave the film a positive review, stated that "the most refreshing aspect of Red Dragon is its reliance on old-fashioned acting instead of computer-aided gizmos. Hopkins overdoes his role at times—his vocal tones are almost campy—but his piercing eyes are as menacing as ever, and Ralph Fiennes is scarily good as his fellow lunatic."David Grove of Film Threat, who gave the film four stars out of five, said: "Is Red Dragon a better film than Manhunter? I don't know. I think it stands on its own, but I wonder how much people who are intimately familiar with Manhunter will be shocked by it, although the ending is altogether different and much more realized, I think". Rick Kisonak, who also wrote for Film Threat, also gave the film a positive review, but he gave it three stars out of five, saying: "The only downside to this delectable third course? The regrettable likelihood that Lecter fans will have to make do without dessert."Edward Guthmann of San Francisco Chronicle, gave the film a mixed review, saying that "in Hollywood, where integrity is rapidly consumed and careers defined by market value, there's trash and there's trash with a pedigree." Stephanie Zacharek, for Salon, also gave the film a mixed review, stating: "If you buy the overprocessed headcheese of the serial killer as refined genius, you'll love Red Dragon. Or maybe not. Even Hannibal Lecter devotees may lose patience with this picture's grandiose, self-serious ponderousness—that's Lecterese for, 'It's kind of boring in patches, actually.'" William Arnold of Seattle Post-Intelligencer, who gave the film a mixed review, said that the film "basically lives up to the old adage that the final work in a trilogy is invariably the weakest." Michael Atkinson of The Village Voice gave the film a negative review; he stated: "Red Dragon's formula is so risible and rote by now that the natural reaction to scenes of peril, torture, and suffering is flippant laughter."

Home media
The film was released on VHS and DVD on April 1, 2003. It was released in two extras-packed DVD editions, a single-disc package and two-disc "Director's Edition". The single-disc package includes deleted scenes, director's commentary by Brett Ratner, Interview with FBI profiler John E. Douglas, Four featurettes: "The Hannibal Lecter Story," "The Making of Red Dragon," "The Art of Criminal Profiling" and "The Making of a Killer". The Director's Edition includes Ratner's video diary, featurette "The Red Dragon Tattoo", screen and film tests, and storyboard-to-final-feature comparisons.

Awards
Red Dragon was nominated for 13 awards, and won several, including Empire Award for Best British Actress (Emily Watson) and Young Artist Award for Best Performance in a Feature Film – Young Actor Age Ten or Younger (Tyler Patrick Jones).

See also
List of films featuring home invasions

Notes
Passage 2:
Rod Smith (wide receiver)
Roderick Duane Smith (born May 15, 1970) is an American former professional football player who was a wide receiver for 14 seasons for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League (NFL).  He played college football for the Missouri Southern Lions.  He was originally signed by the Broncos as an undrafted free agent and played his entire career with the team.  As of 2023's offseason, his 849 career receptions and 11,389 receiving yards ranked him 30th all-time for receptions and 34th for yards.

Personal life
At Arkansas Senior High School in Texarkana, Arkansas, Smith lettered two years in football and basketball, and one year in baseball. As a senior in football, he was All-League, All-Area, and All-State. Outside of football Rod Smith has three kids (Roderick Smith Jr., Devin Smith, and Vanessa Webb). He is a business entrepreneur as he has expressed in many interviews. Some of these have featured his kids speaking about their father's accomplishments on and off the field.

College career
Smith enjoyed a stellar career at Missouri Southern State University, finishing with conference records in career receiving yards (3,043) and touchdowns (34). He also broke the school’s reception record (153), and was named first-team All-America by AP, Kodak, Football Gazette and NCAA Division II sports information directors after his senior year. In his final season, Smith caught 63 passes for 986 yards and 13 touchdowns, and was a finalist for the Harlon Hill Trophy, given annually to the top football player at the Division II level. He was named Missouri Southern’s Outstanding Graduate in 1994 after completing his collegiate studies with three degrees, in economics and finance, general business, as well as marketing and management.

Professional career
After the 1994 draft, Smith went undrafted and was signed by the Denver Broncos as a free agent. His first NFL catch was a last-minute 43-yard touchdown from John Elway in a 38–31 win against the Washington Redskins on September 17, 1995. In fourteen seasons as an NFL player, Smith had eight seasons of at least 1,000 receiving yards. He had two seasons of at least 100 receptions (2000: 100; 2001: 113). In 2000, Smith and teammate Ed McCaffrey became only the second wide receiver duo on the same team to each gain 100 receptions in the same season (with Herman Moore and Brett Perriman). His 113 receptions in 2001 led the league. He was a starting wide receiver of the Broncos' back-to-back Super Bowl championships in 1997 and 1998. In the Broncos' 34–19 win in Super Bowl XXXIII, Smith had 5 receptions for 152 yards, tied for 5th most in Super Bowl history, including an 80-yard touchdown reception. He was a finalist for the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award in 2004.
A hip injury that he suffered in 2006 required a complete hip replacement. On December 28, 2007 it was revealed that Smith needed another hip surgery, possibly ending his career. He was placed on the reserve/retired list on February 15, 2008, and announced his formal retirement from professional football on July 24, 2008 in a press conference at the team's Dove Valley headquarters.
Smith finished his career as the Broncos all-time leader in receptions (849), receiving yards (11,389), and touchdown receptions (68).  Also an accomplished punt returner, Smith returned 53 punts for 647 yards and a touchdown.  His 12.2 yards per return average ranked him 2nd all time among Broncos players with at least 50 punt returns.  With two Super Bowls, three Pro Bowls, and a controversy-free career noted for professionalism, Smith left the Broncos as one of the most well-loved players of all time. In May 2012 it was announced that he would be inducted into the Broncos Ring of Fame in his first year of eligibility for the honor. The induction ceremony took place on Sunday, Sep 23, at halftime of the Broncos' home game against the Houston Texans at Sports Authority Field at Mile High.

Awards and accomplishments
First undrafted player to reach 10,000 receiving yards, and the 24th in history to eclipse that figure.
Has the most receiving yards (11,389) and touchdown receptions (68) of any undrafted player in NFL history.
Ranks second on the most receptions (849) by any undrafted player in NFL history, behind Wes Welker.
Holds Broncos franchise records in career receptions, receiving yards and touchdown catches.
Ranks first on Denver's all-time yards from scrimmage list.
Only the sixth player in NFL history to have 100 receptions against at least 3 teams (Kansas City Chiefs, San Diego Chargers and Oakland Raiders).
AFC Offensive Player of the Week (week 15; 12/17/05 against the Buffalo Bills at Buffalo).
Associated Press second-team All-Pro (2000, 2001).
Football Digest first-team All-Pro (2000, 2001).
USA Today first-team All-Pro (2000).
College and Pro Newsweekly first-team All-Pro (2000).
Pro Football Weekly All-AFC (2000, 2001).
Division II Hall of Fame (Inducted in 2008)
College Football Hall of Fame (Inducted in 2009)
Denver Broncos Ring of Fame (Inducted in 2012)

Franchise records
As of 2023's NFL off-season, Rod Smith held at least 11 Broncos franchise records, including:

Receptions: career (849), season (113 in 2001)
Receiving Yds: career (11,389), playoffs (860)
Receiving TDs: career (68), playoffs (6)
Total TDs: career (71)
Yds from Scrimmage: career (11,737)
All Purpose Yds: career (12,488)
Games with 1+ TD scored: career (66)
Seasons with 1000+ receiving yards: career (8)
Passage 3:
Ron Smith (wide receiver)
Ronnie Bernard Smith (born November 20, 1956) is a former professional American football wide receiver who played in the National Football League (NFL) for six seasons with the Los Angeles Rams, the San Diego Chargers, and the Philadelphia Eagles.
Smith played defensive end at Kathleen High School in Lakeland, Florida. At 6 feet (1.8 m) and 185 pounds (84 kg), he received an offer to play for Cal State Fullerton, and instead enrolled at Fullerton College. He switched to playing wide receiver after his first year, and was a Junior College All-American the following season, when he earned a scholarship to play with San Diego State. As a senior in 1977, Smith caught 49 passes for around 700 yards and 14 touchdowns and was a key to the Aztecs' 10–1 season.In the 1978 NFL draft, Smith was selected in the second round by the Los Angeles Rams. He caught just one pass as a rookie in 1978. A seldom-used sophomore in 1979, he caught a 43-yard touchdown from Vince Ferragamo at the end of the first half to give the Rams a 14–5 lead in an eventual 21–19 win over Dallas in the divisional playoffs. In Super Bowl XIV, Smith caught a 24-yard touchdown on a halfback option pass from Lawrence McCutcheon, but the Rams loss 31–19 to Pittsburgh. The San Diego Chargers acquired him from the Rams at the end of the preseason in 1980 for a middle-round draft pick. He caught just four passes for 48 yards during the regular season for San Diego.  However, he came up with another key playoff touchdown when he caught a game-winning 50-yard score from Dan Fouts with 2:08 remaining in a 20–14 win over the Buffalo Bills, advancing the Chargers to the AFC Championship Game.After his NFL career, Smith signed with the Oakland Invaders of the United States Football League (USFL) in 1984.  Smith played in six games, starting five, and caught nine passes for 107 yards and one touchdown before being placed on injured reserve on May 30, 1984.

External links

Career statistics and player information from NFL.com · Pro Football Reference
Passage 4:
Clarice Starling
Clarice M. Starling is a fictional character and protagonist of the novels The Silence of the Lambs (1988) and Hannibal (1999) by Thomas Harris.
In the 1991 film adaptation of The Silence of the Lambs, she was played by Jodie Foster, while in the 2001 film adaptation of Hannibal, she was played by Julianne Moore. In the CBS television series Clarice, she is played by Rebecca Breeds.
Clarice Starling, as portrayed by Foster, is ranked by the American Film Institute as the greatest heroine in film history. Rolling Stone and Entertainment Weekly ranked Starling as one of the "50 Greatest Movie Protagonists" and "100 Greatest Movie Characters" respectively. Foster's interpretation of Starling is highly ranked amongst the greatest screen performances of all-time, receiving a multitude of accolades including the Academy Award for Best Actress in 1992.

The Silence of the Lambs
In The Silence of the Lambs, Starling is a student at the FBI Academy. Her mentor, Behavioral Sciences Unit chief Jack Crawford, sends her to interview Dr. Hannibal Lecter, a brilliant psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer. He is housed in a Baltimore mental institution. Upon arriving at the asylum for her first interview with Lecter, the asylum manager Frederick Chilton makes a crude pass at her, which she rebuffs; this helps her bond with Lecter, who despises Chilton. "Multiple" Miggs, the inmate in the cell next to Lecter, throws his semen at her; this offends Lecter, who "influences" Miggs to commit suicide as a way of apologizing to her.
As time passes, Lecter gives Starling information about Buffalo Bill, a currently active serial killer being hunted by the FBI, but only in exchange for personal information, which Crawford had specifically warned her to keep secret from Lecter.
Starling tells Lecter that she was raised in a small town in West Virginia by her father, a night marshal. When she was a young child, her father was shot when responding to a robbery; he died a month after the incident. Her mother managed to keep the family together for more than two years after his death, working as a motel maid in the daytime and cooking at a café at night, but she was ultimately unable to support the entire family. When Starling was 10 years old, she was sent to live with her mother's cousin on a Montana sheep and horse ranch, but she ran away when she witnessed the spring lambs being slaughtered, fleeing with a mare also destined for the slaughterhouse whom she named Hannah. Starling was caught, but her mother's cousin eventually agreed to let her go, and she and Hannah both went to a Lutheran orphanage, where she spent the rest of her childhood.
According to the novel, Starling attended the University of Virginia as a double major in psychology and criminology. During that time, she spent two summers working as a counselor in a mental health center. Starling first met Crawford when he was a guest lecturer at UVA. His criminology seminars were a factor in her decision to join the FBI.
During the investigation, Starling is assigned to coax Lecter into revealing Buffalo Bill's identity. Lecter gives her clues in the form of cryptic, riddling information designed to help Starling figure it out for herself. The two grow to respect each other, so when Lecter escapes during a transfer to a state prison in Tennessee, Starling does not fear that he will kill her, as he "would consider it rude".
Starling deduces from Lecter's hints that Buffalo Bill's first victim had a personal relationship with him, and so goes to the victim's home in Belvedere, Ohio, to interview people who knew her. She unknowingly stumbles onto the killer himself, Jame Gumb, who is living under the alias "Jack Gordon". When she sees a Death's-head Moth, the same rare kind that Buffalo Bill stuffs in the throats of each of his victims, flutter through the house, she knows that she has found her man and tries to arrest him. Gumb flees, and Starling follows him into his basement, where his latest victim is alive and screaming for help. Gumb turns off the electricity in the basement, and stalks Starling through the rooms wearing night-vision goggles. As Gumb readies to shoot Starling, Starling hears him cock the hammer of his revolver and opens fire towards the sound, killing him. She is lauded as a hero in the press, and graduates with honors from the FBI Academy, becoming a full-fledged agent.
Weeks later, Lecter writes Starling a letter from a hotel room somewhere in St. Louis asking her if the lambs have stopped screaming.
The final scene of the novel has Starling sleeping peacefully at a friend's vacation house at the Maryland seashore.

Hannibal
At the beginning of Hannibal, Starling is in her early 30s and still working for the FBI, although her career has been held back by Paul Krendler, a Department of Justice official who resents her because he is a misogynist, because she rejected his sexual advances, and because he believes that she humiliated him. She takes part in a bungled drug raid, in which she returns fire after a drug kingpin fires at her, using an infant as a human shield; her superiors blame her for the resulting mess, and she is removed from active duty, mostly at Krendler's instigation. She receives a supportive letter from Lecter, who is (unknown to her at the time) residing in Florence, Italy under an alias. One of Lecter's surviving victims, a sadistic pedophile named Mason Verger, is searching for Lecter and has offered a huge reward, which corrupt Florentine police inspector Rinaldo Pazzi tries to claim when he deduces Lecter's true identity in Florence.
Starling finds out that Lecter is in Florence and attempts to warn Pazzi. As Starling predicted, Lecter knows about the plot to capture him and, as a result, he kills Pazzi. Lecter then flees to the United States and immediately starts to follow Starling. Starling, meanwhile, is being harassed at the FBI by various corrupt agents, especially by Krendler, who is secretly assisting Verger in his attempt to capture Lecter. Starling attempts to find Lecter first, not only to capture him but also to save him from Verger. Krendler attempts to frame Starling in a scheme planned by Verger, alleging she sent coded newspaper messages to Lecter; this only results in her being suspended, but she is now powerless to stop Verger's men. Lecter is captured by Verger, who plans to feed him to a pack of specially bred wild boars.

Starling is aware that Lecter is being held by Verger, so she attempts to save him so she can bring him in to the authorities. Following Verger's death at the hands of his sister Margot, Starling uses the distraction to try to rescue Lecter. She is wounded in the ensuing gunfight with Verger's men, but Lecter rescues her and nurses her back to health. He then subjects her to a regimen of psychoactive drugs in the course of therapy sessions to help her heal from her childhood trauma and her pent-up anger at the injustices of the world. He considers whether his long-dead younger sister Mischa may somehow be able to live again through Starling.
During this time, Lecter captures Krendler and performs a craniotomy on him while he is still alive. During an elaborate dinner, Lecter scoops spoonfuls of Krendler's forebrain to saute with lemon and capers. In the novel, he serves Krendler's brain to Starling, who finds it delicious.
Lecter's plan for Mischa to live again within Starling ultimately fails, as she refuses to have her own personality sublimated, and he only briefly entertains the idea of Mischa taking his place. Starling then opens her dress and offers her breasts to Lecter; he accepts her offer and the two become lovers. They disappear together, only to be sighted again three years later entering the Teatro Colón Opera House in Buenos Aires by former orderly Barney, who had treated Lecter with respect while he was incarcerated in Baltimore. Fearing for his life, Barney leaves Buenos Aires immediately, never to return.
The reader then learns that Lecter and Starling are living together in an "exquisite" Beaux Arts mansion, where they employ servants and engage in activities such as learning new languages and dancing together and building their own respective memory palaces, and is told that "Sex is a splendid structure they add to every day", that the psychoactive drugs "have had no part in their lives for a long time", and that Lecter is "satisfied" with the fact that Mischa cannot return.

Films
In the film adaptation of The Silence of the Lambs, Starling's role remains relatively unchanged from the book. However, the film adaptation of Hannibal significantly diverges from the novel's conclusion. In the film, Lecter neither attempts to brainwash Starling nor feeds her Krendler's brain (although he does feed portions of it to Krendler himself); instead, Starling tries to apprehend Lecter, but he overpowers her and she handcuffs both of them to the refrigerator in an attempt to keep him in the house before the imminent arrival of the police. Lecter then cuts off his own hand and escapes, leaving Starling to explain the situation to the police. He is later seen on a plane, apparently fleeing the country again.
Although she won the Academy Award for Best Actress for playing Starling in The Silence of the Lambs, Jodie Foster decided not to reprise her role in Hannibal. Julianne Moore portrayed the character in the sequel, with Anthony Hopkins himself recommending her for the role after his previous experience working with her in the film Surviving Picasso.

Television
Lifetime
In May 2012, Lifetime announced that they were developing a television series centered on Clarice Starling after her graduation from the FBI academy, titled Clarice, which was to be produced by MGM. The project did not go forward.

NBC
Bryan Fuller, the creator of the TV series Hannibal, stated prior to the show's cancellation his desire to include Clarice Starling as a character in the fifth season, provided that he could get the rights from MGM. He said that he planned for the show's fifth season to cover the events of The Silence of the Lambs, and the sixth to cover the events of Hannibal, with the seventh to be an original storyline resolving Hannibal's ending. Since the series' cancellation, Fuller has stated that should the series continue and should they obtain rights to adapt The Silence of the Lambs, Elliot Page or a person of color would be ideal casting for the role of Clarice Starling.

CBS

CBS developed the Clarice TV series as a sequel to The Silence of the Lambs set in 1993, created by Alex Kurtzman and Jenny Lumet. The series stars Rebecca Breeds as the titular character, along with Lucca De Oliveira, Devyn A. Tyler, Kal Penn, Nick Sandow, Michael Cudlitz, and Marnee Carpenter, and premiered on February 11, 2021, on CBS. It was effectively cancelled in June after one season because of low ratings and the breakdown of talks concerning the series' planned move from CBS to Paramount+.
Passage 5:
John "Hannibal" Smith
Colonel John "Hannibal" Smith is a fictional character and one of the four protagonists of the 1980s action-adventure television series The A-Team, played by George Peppard. The producers originally had James Coburn in mind to play the part of Hannibal, but it eventually went to Peppard.The character—which was based loosely on former United States Army Special Forces officer Bo Gritz—appeared on The A-Team from its beginning in 1983 until its end in 1987. The character was played by Liam Neeson in the 2010 film adaptation. His often spoken line "I love it when a plan comes together" was included in TV Land's "The 100 Greatest TV Quotes and Catch Phrases" in 2006.

Character biography
The A-Team is a group of ex-United States Army Special Forces soldiers who, near the end of the Vietnam War, were arrested for a crime they did not commit and managed to escape from the Military Police. As fugitives, the A-Team works as soldiers of fortune, using their military training to fight oppression or injustice. Hannibal, along with B. A. Baracus, Templeton "Faceman" Peck, and H. M. "Howlin' Mad" Murdock make up the A-Team.
In the pilot episode ("Mexican Slayride: Part 1"), Hannibal is described by a reporter colleague of Amy Allen as follows: "The leader [of the A-Team] is a Colonel named John Smith. But everybody calls him Hannibal. The guy has a very unorthodox style." Smith takes his name from the famous military commander and strategist, as alluded to by B. A. Baracus in the same episode; various items of tie-in literature for the series commented that just as the original Hannibal had led the elephants over the Alps, this Hannibal had led his men over the wall of Fort Bragg after they were wrongly arrested. He is distinguished by his unflappable demeanor, even when in peril, his constant cigar-smoking, his black leather gloves, and his many disguises. He is a master tactician (although his plans rarely turn out as they are supposed to; when asked if she thought this was going to work, Amy Allen summed it up by saying, "Hannibal's plans never work right. They just work.") and seems to have a plan for getting the team out of any situation they get into. His favorite catchphrase is, "I love it when a plan comes together"; he is often heard to remark "Nice" after part of his plan has succeeded - sometimes with destructive or explosive results.
He fought in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars, serving in the 5th Special Forces Group in Vietnam, and is a Medal of Honor recipient.  His rank is inconsistent: throughout the first four seasons, he is referred to as possessing the rank of lieutenant colonel, though in keeping with US Army practice, he is most often referred to simply as "Colonel". In the fourth-season episode "Members Only" and fifth-season episodes "Trial by Fire" and "Firing Line", however, he is wearing the eagle insignia of a full colonel. (His medals in these episodes are also different from those on display the last time he wore his Class A uniform in the first-season finale, "A Nice Place to Visit".) Thriving on adventure and the adrenaline rush of life-threatening situations (or being "on the jazz", as the rest of the team refers to it), he seems to genuinely enjoy every challenge they encounter. He is renowned by both allies and enemies for being cool-headed and extremely clever. There is rarely a situation where he is not able to smile in the face of adversity. He will usually light up a cigar when he needs to do some thinking—often when coming up with a plan, or in the heat of a dangerous or exciting moment. He is also often seen putting on his gloves when he senses the action is about to pick up (such as a fist fight breaking out). When captured by their enemies, he will deliver flippant or sarcastic remarks. He regularly dispenses aphorisms, especially to their foes, upon defeating them. He also has some medical skills which he picked up when in Vietnam.
He styles himself a "master of disguise", though his skill lies not so much in how convincing his disguise is, but in his ability to assume any role and convince others that his role is genuine. Most episodes begin with the prospective clients coming to meet the A-Team, only to be introduced to one of Hannibal's comic aliases. Hannibal uses his various disguises to screen all the A-Team's potential clients to assure they are not fronts for the military—sometimes playing more than one at a time. Clients often make reference to a "Mr. Lee", the owner of a Chinese laundromat who tells them where to meet the team.
Hannibal is also an aspiring actor, playing monsters in low-budget horror movies (being a fugitive, he can only choose roles in which his face cannot be seen). His many roles include "Gatorella", "Killgator" and his most famous, "The Aquamaniac". Naturally, Hannibal secures his roles playing his own agent; somehow always 'eluding' the Producer of his true identity.

Romantic relationships
Dr. Maggie Sullivan (season 1 episode 6 "Black Day at Bad Rock") – In an uncharacteristic moment in the series, it is Hannibal who is capable of seducing the episode's leading female role, rather than Face. The character of Maggie Sullivan returns in season 2, episode 21 "Deadly Maneuvers", where Hannibal and the doctor still seem to care for one another.
Anne Sanders (season 3 episode 4 "Fire!") - The A-Team is hired by a female firefighter played by Stepfanie Kramer who is capable of challenging Hannibal. The sexual tension between the two rises throughout the episode. Hannibal seemingly gives in to a short fling with the woman, and they share a kiss at the end of the episode. She is not seen in any subsequent episodes.

Recurring aliases
"Mr. Lee" – The owner of a Chinese laundromat, who often makes use of clichéd Chinese proverbs and is of unpredictable mood. Mr. Lee only appears on-screen in the pilot episode "Mexican Slayride: Part 1" (although a shot of Hannibal in character as Mr. Lee is used as part of the first season opening credits sequence). However, the alias of Mr. Lee is often referred to throughout the series by clients and by the team itself, though these examples tended to fade out after the first two seasons. Typically "Mr. Lee" is the first one to screen potential clients and then refers them to a second location to meet a second liaison on behalf of the team.

Awards and decorations
"A Nice Place to Visit"
The following are the medals and service awards fictionally worn by Lieutenant Colonel Smith in "A Nice Place to Visit".

"Members Only"
The following are the medals and service awards fictionally worn by Colonel Smith in "Members Only".

"Trial by Fire" and "Firing Line"
The following are the medals and service awards fictionally worn by Colonel Smith in "Trial by Fire" and "Firing Line".

2010 film
In the 2010 movie adaptation, Hannibal is portrayed by Liam Neeson. Identified as "John H. Smith" on a toe tag, Hannibal is portrayed as a character who, though still tactically brilliant and capable of making a plan come together, is not quite as unflappable as his television counterpart. In fact, due to the betrayal nature of the storyline (concerning the "crime they did not commit"), Hannibal is often shown as angry and intense. The team's conviction by military court visibly affects him, though his penchant for wisecracks is still prevalent (for the television character, more than a decade had passed since the conviction so such reactions were never shown in the show).
Except at an airport when the A-Team is flying from Norway to Los Angeles (in which Hannibal's disguise is Neeson's real-life appearance), the character does not don any disguises in the film, instead leaving that arm of business to Face. The cigar smoking was also kept intact; despite Neeson being an ex-smoker, he kept his personal preferences aside for the role. Hannibal shows considerable leadership abilities, attempting to take the A-Team's full blame for their alleged crime, and breaking them out of prison when they reject it; however, he steps back and lets Face plan the final mission, a decision B. A. regrets.
In the film, Hannibal is a full colonel, has served in both the Army's 75th Ranger Regiment and the 7th Special Forces Group, in which he and his team are still members until their court martial, and has served a total of two and a half years in overseas combat zones. Unlike the TV series, Hannibal is not a Medal of Honor recipient. Like B.A., Face, and Murdock, he has an Army Ranger tattoo (on his left arm).

Awards and decorations
The following are the medals and service awards fictionally worn by Colonel Smith in the 2010 movie adaptation.
Passage 6:
University of Kansas
The University of Kansas (KU) is a public research university with its main campus in Lawrence, Kansas. Two branch campuses are in the Kansas City metropolitan area on the Kansas side: the university's medical school and hospital in Kansas City, Kansas, the Edwards Campus in Overland Park. There are also educational and research sites in Garden City, Hays, Leavenworth, Parsons, and Topeka, an agricultural education center in rural north Douglas County, and branches of the medical school in Salina and Wichita. The university is a member of the Association of American Universities and is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity".Founded March 21, 1865, the university was opened in 1866 under a charter granted by the Kansas State Legislature in 1864 and legislation passed in 1863 under the state constitution, which was adopted two years after the 1861 admission of the former Kansas Territory as the 34th state into the Union.Enrollment at the Lawrence and Edwards campuses was 23,958 students in fall 2021; an additional 3,727 students were enrolled at the KU Medical Center (KUMC) for an enrollment of 27,685  students across the three campuses. The university overall (including KUMC) employed 4,776 faculty members (faculty, faculty administrators, graduate student employees and librarians) in fall 2021.Kansas's athletic teams compete in NCAA Division I sports as the Jayhawks, as members of the Big 12 Conference. They field 16 varsity sports, as well as club-level sports for ice hockey, rugby, and men's volleyball.

History
On February 20, 1863, Kansas Governor Thomas Carney signed into law a bill creating the state university in Lawrence. The law was conditioned upon a gift from Lawrence of a $15,000 endowment fund and a site for the university, in or near the town, of not less than forty acres (16 hectares) of land. If Lawrence failed to meet these conditions, Emporia instead of Lawrence would get the university.
The site selected for the university was a hill known as Hogback Ridge (later known as Mount Oread), which was privately donated by Charles L. Robinson, the Republican governor of the state of Kansas from 1861 to 1863, and one of the original settlers of Lawrence, Kansas. Robinson and his wife Sara bestowed the 40-acre (16 ha) site to the State of Kansas in exchange for land elsewhere. The philanthropist Amos Adams Lawrence donated $10,000 of the necessary endowment fund, and the citizens of Lawrence raised the remaining money themselves via private donations. On November 2, 1863, Governor Carney announced Lawrence had met the conditions to get into the state university, and the following year the university was officially organized.
The school's Board of Regents held its first meeting in March 1865, which is the event that KU dates its founding from. Work on the first college building began later that year. The school opened for classes on September 12, 1866, and the first class graduated in 1873. According to William L. Burdick, the first degree awarded by the university was a Doctor of Divinity, bestowed upon noted abolitionist preacher Richard Cordley.During World War II, Kansas was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program, which offered students a path to a Navy commission.

Landmarks and structures
KU is home to the Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics, the Beach Center on Disability, Lied Center of Kansas and radio stations KJHK, 90.7 FM, and KANU, 91.5 FM. The university is also host to several significant museums. These include the University of Kansas Natural History Museum, founded in 1927, which contains important collections in ornithology, vertebrate paleontology, and entomology; and the Spencer Museum of Art, founded in 1928, home to a wide variety of cultural materials from all around the world, with a particular emphasis on American Indian materials. The libraries of the university include Watson Library, Kenneth Spencer Research Library, the Murphy Art and Architecture Library, Thomas Gorton Music & Dance Library, and Anschutz Library. Of athletic note, the university is home to Allen Fieldhouse, which is heralded as one of the greatest basketball arenas in the world, and David Booth Kansas Memorial Stadium, which is the eighth oldest college football stadium in the country.

Academics
The University of Kansas is a large, state-sponsored university with five campuses. KU is a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU) and is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity". KU features the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, which includes the School of the Arts and the School of Public Affairs & Administration; and the schools of Architecture, Design & Planning; Business; Education; Engineering; Health Professions; Journalism & Mass Communications; Law; Medicine; Music; Nursing; Pharmacy; and Social Welfare. The university offers more than 345 degree programs. In 2017 Johnson County accounted for most of instate enrollment.In its 2022 report, U.S. News & World Report ranked KU as tied for 121st place among National Universities and tied for 56th place among public universities.According to the National Science Foundation, KU spent $339 million on research and development in 2018, ranking it 74th in the nation.

School of Architecture and Design
The University of Kansas School of Architecture and Design (ArcD), with its main building being Marvin Hall, traces its architectural roots to the creation of the architectural engineering degree program in KU's School of Engineering in 1912. The Bachelor of Architecture degree was added in 1920. In 1969 the School of Architecture and Urban Design (SAUD) was formed with three programs: architecture, architectural engineering, and urban planning. In 2001 architectural engineering merged with civil and environmental engineering. The design programs from the discontinued School of Fine Arts were merged into the school in 2009 forming the School of Architecture and Design. 
The Department of Design began in 1921 with courses in Poster Design, Textiles, Metalwork, Bookbinding, Ceramics, and Weaving. The Bachelor of Fine Arts degree program began in 1929 with programs in Design, Public School Art, and Drawing & Painting and required 120 credit hours. Industrial Design was added in 1941, interior design in 1946, jewelry and silversmithing, art history, and the Masters of Fine Arts program in 1948. 
In 2009, the University reorganized the School of Fine Arts. The professional design practice programs (Illustration & Animation, Industrial Design, Photography, and Visual Communication Design) became the Department of Design, administratively located in the School of Architecture and Design.

School of Business
The University of Kansas School of Business is a public business school on the main campus of the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas. The KU School of Business was founded in 1924 and has more than 80 faculty members and approximately 1500 students.Named one of the best business schools in the Midwest by Princeton Review, the KU School of Business has been continually accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) for its undergraduate and graduate programs in business and accounting.

For 2021, U.S. News & World Report ranked KU's business school 68th out of 477 evaluated.In 2016, The University of Kansas completed construction on a new home for the business school, named Capitol Federal Hall. It is located at 1654 Naismith Drive, near KU's Rec Center and across the street from Allen Fieldhouse. Capitol Federal Hall is a 166,500 square-foot building complete with state-of-the-art technology and several research labs.

School of Law
The University of Kansas School of Law, founded in 1878, was the top law school in the state of Kansas, and tied for 70th out of 198 nationally, according to the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Classes are held in Green Hall at W 15th St and Burdick Dr, which is named after former dean James Green.

School of Engineering
The KU School of Engineering is a public engineering school located on the main campus. The School of Engineering was founded officially in 1891, although engineering degrees were awarded as early as 1873.In the U.S. News & World Report's "America’s Best Colleges" 2021 issue, KU's School of Engineering was ranked tied for 102nd among 218 engineering schools whose highest degree is a doctorate.Notable alumni include: Charles E. Spahr (1934), the former CEO of Standard Oil of Ohio.

School of Journalism and Mass Communications
The William Allen White School of Journalism and Mass Communications is recognized for its ability to prepare students to work in a variety of media. The school offers two tracts of study: 1) News and Information, and 2) Strategic Communication. This professional school teaches students reporting for print, online and broadcast, strategic campaigning for PR and advertising, photojournalism and video reporting and editing. The J-School's students maintain various publications on campus, including The University Daily Kansan, Jayplay magazine, and KUJH TV. In 2008, the Fiske Guide to Colleges praised the KU J-School for its strength. In 2010, the School of Journalism and Mass Communications placed second at the prestigious Hearst Foundation national writing competition.

Medical Center
The University of Kansas Medical Center features three schools: the School of Medicine, School of Nursing, and School of Health Professions that each has its own programs of graduate study. As of the Fall 2013 semester, there were 3,349 students enrolled at KU Med. The Medical Center also offers four-year instruction at the Wichita campus, and features a medical school campus in Salina, Kansas devoted to rural health care.
The University of Kansas Health System is co-located at the University of Kansas Medical Center.

Edwards Campus, Overland Park
KU's Edwards Campus is in Overland Park, Kansas. Established in 1993, its goal is to provide adults with the opportunity to complete undergraduate, graduate, and certificate programs. About 2,000 students attend the Edwards Campus, with an average age of 31. Programs available at the Edwards Campus include business administration, education, engineering, social work and more.

University of Kansas Leavenworth
Near the beginning of the 2018–2019 school year, KU launched classes in Leavenworth, Kansas, offering classes to "both civilian and military" students, emphasizing a "high priority in supporting military-affiliated students". The Leavenworth classes offer both undergraduate and graduate courses.

Tuition
Beginning in the 2007–2008 academic year, first-time freshmen at KU pay a fixed tuition rate for 48 months according to the Four-Year Tuition Compact passed by the Kansas Board of Regents. For the 2014–15 academic year, tuition was $318 per credit hour for in-state freshmen and $828 for out-of-state freshmen. For transfer students, who do not take part in the compact, 2014–15 per-credit-hour tuition was $295 for in-state undergraduates and $785 for out-of-state undergraduates; subject to annual increases. Students enrolled in 6 or more credit hours also paid an annual required campus fee of $888. The schools of architecture, music, arts, business, education, engineering, journalism, law, pharmacy, and social welfare charge additional fees.
As of August 2019, the annual tuition for 30 credit hours for a resident freshman is estimated by the university to be $10,182, not counting room and board costs.

Computing innovations
KU's School of Business launched interdisciplinary management science graduate studies in operations research during Fall Semester 1965. The program provided the foundation for decision science applications supporting NASA Project Apollo Command Capsule Recovery Operations.
KU's academic computing department was an active participant in setting up the Internet and is the developer of the early Lynx text-based web browser. Lynx provided hypertext browsing and navigation prior to Tim Berners Lee's invention of HTTP and HTML.

Student activities
Athletics
The school's sports teams, wearing crimson and blue, are called the Kansas Jayhawks. They participate in the NCAA's Division I and in the Big 12 Conference. The University of Kansas has won thirteen National Championships all-time: six in men's basketball (two Helms Foundation championships and four NCAA championships, most recently in 2022), three in men's indoor track and field, three in men's outdoor track and field, one in men's cross country and one in women's outdoor track and field. The home course for KU Cross Country is Rim Rock Farm. Their most recent championship came in 2022, the men's basketball team won the 2022 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament.

Kansas football dates from 1890, and is one of the oldest continuous programs in the nation. They have played in the Orange Bowl three times: 1948, 1969, and 2008, as well as nine other bowl games. They are currently coached by Lance Leipold, who was hired in May 2021. From its inception in 1890 to 1929 the program saw consistent success, winning several conference titles in 4 different conferences. After joining the Big 6 Conference (which would eventually become the Big 8) in 1929, Kansas began to struggle in the win-loss column. With the formation of the Big 8 conference in 1960, Kansas became a consistent winner again and fielded legendary coaches like Pepper Rodgers, Don Fambrough, Bud Moore, and Glen Mason. In 2008, under the leadership of Mark Mangino, the #7 Jayhawks emerged victorious in their first BCS bowl game, the FedEx Orange Bowl, with a 24–21 victory over the #3 Virginia Tech Hokies. This capstone victory marked the end of the most successful season in school history, in which the Jayhawks went 12–1 (.923). The team plays at David Booth Kansas Memorial Stadium, which recently underwent an $85 million renovation to add an indoor practice facility with a 120-yard field, an outdoor practice facility with 2 full fields and three partial fields, new locker rooms, a new weight training facility, new residencies for players, new offices, new turf, new seats, and a state-of-the-art video board.The KU men's basketball team has fielded a team every year since 1898. The Jayhawks are a perennial national contender, coached by Hall of Fame coach Bill Self. The team has won six national titles, including four NCAA tournament championships in 1952, 1988, 2008, and 2022. The basketball program is currently the winningest program in college basketball history with an overall record of 2,355–877 up to their Final Four appearance in the 2021–22 season. The team plays at Allen Fieldhouse. Perhaps its best-recognized player was Wilt Chamberlain, who played in the 1950s, later becoming an NBA star and Harlem Globetrotter.
Kansas has counted among its coaches James Naismith (the inventor of basketball), Basketball Hall of Fame inductee Phog Allen ("the Father of basketball coaching" and a Kansas alumnus himself), Dick Harp, Ted Owens, Basketball Hall of Fame inductee Roy Williams, and Basketball Hall of Fame inductee and former NBA Champion Detroit Pistons coach Larry Brown. Currently, Kansas is coached by Basketball Hall of Fame inductee Bill Self. In addition, legendary University of Kentucky coach and Basketball Hall of Fame inductee Adolph Rupp played for KU's 1922 and 1923 Helms National Championship teams, and NCAA Hall of Fame inductee and University of North Carolina Coach Dean Smith played for KU's 1952 NCAA Championship team. Both Rupp and Smith played under Phog Allen. Allen also coached Hall of Fame coaches Dutch Lonborg and Ralph Miller. Allen founded the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC), which started what is now the NCAA Tournament. The Tournament began in 1939 under the NABC and the next year was handed off to the newly formed NCAA.Notable non-varsity sports include rugby, men's hockey, and men's soccer. The rugby team owns its private facility and tours internationally every two years. The men’s hockey team plays in nearby Kansas City.

Debate teams
The University of Kansas has had more teams (70) compete in the National Debate Tournament than any other university. Kansas has won the tournament 6 times (1954, 1970, 1976, 1983, 2009 and 2018) and had 15 teams make it to the final four. Kansas trails only Northwestern (15) and Harvard (7) for most tournaments won and is tied with Dartmouth (6). Kansas also won the Copeland Award in 1981–82 and 2017–18.

Media
The university's newspaper is University Daily Kansan, which placed first in the Intercollegiate Writing Competition of the prestigious William Randolph Hearst Writing Foundation competition, often called "The Pulitzers of College Journalism" in 2007. In Winter of 2008, a group of students created KUpedia, a wiki about all things KU. They received student funding for operations in 2008–09. The KU Department of English publishes the Coal City Review, an annual literary journal of prose, poetry, reviews and illustrations. The Review typically features the work of many writers, but periodically spotlights one author, as in the case of 2006 Nelson Poetry Book Award-winner Voyeur Poems by Matthew Porubsky.The University Daily Kansan operates outside of the university's William Allen White School of Journalism and reaches at least 30,000 daily readers through its print and online publicationsThe university houses the following public broadcasting stations: KJHK, a student-run campus radio station, KUJH-LP, an independent station that primarily broadcasts public affairs programs, and KANU, the NPR-affiliated radio station. Kansas Public Radio station KANU was one of the nation's first public radio stations. KJHK, the campus radio has roots back to 1952 and is completely run by students.

Center for Community Health and Development
The university's Center for Community Health and Development (formerly KU Work Group) was designated as a World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Community Health and Development in 2004. It is affiliated with the Department of Applied Behavioral Science and the Schiefelbusch Institute for Life Span Studies at the university, and supports community health and development through a variety of means, including its free online resource, the Community Tool Box.

Foundations
University of Kansas Memorial Corporation
The first union was built on campus in 1926 as a campus community center. The unions are still the "living rooms" of campus and include three locations – the Kansas Union and Burge Union at the Lawrence Campus and Jayhawk Central at the Edwards Campus. The KU Memorial Unions Corporation manages the KU Bookstore (with seven locations). The KU Bookstore is the official bookstore of KU. The corporation also includes KU Dining Services, with more than 20 campus locations, including The Market (inside the Kansas Union) and The Underground (located in Wescoe Hall). The KU Bookstore and KU Dining Services are not-for-profit, with proceeds supporting student programs, such as Student Union Activities.

KU Endowment
KU Endowment was established in 1891 as the university's primary institutional foundation to manage and build the university's endowment.

Notable alumni and faculty
325 Fulbright Scholars, 27 Rhodes Scholars, 10 Marshall Scholars, 2 Mitchell Scholars, 12 MacArthur Fellows, 7 Pulitzer Prize winners, 4 NASA astronauts, 3 Nobel Prize laureates, 2 Fields Medal winners, 3 Hugo Award or Nebula Award winners, and an Academy Award winner have been affiliated with the university as students, researchers, or faculty members. Additionally, one alumnus has received the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Dean Smith, who played basketball at Kansas from 1949 to 1953 and was a Hall of Fame men's basketball coach at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, was given the award by Barack Obama in 2013. Politician Bob Dole, who played football and basketball at the school but did not graduate, was also awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

See also
Bailey Hall (University of Kansas)
Budig Hall
Kansas Audio-Reader Network
Kansas Crew (University Rowing Club)
"Kansas Song"
"Home on the Range"
University of Kansas Marching Jayhawks

Notes
Passage 7:
Five Days from Home
Five Days from Home is a 1978 American drama film directed, produced and starring George Peppard, with Sherry Boucher, Savannah Smith, Neville Brand, Victor Campos, and Robert Donner.

Plot
T.M. Pryor, a former cop, escapes from a prison in Louisiana where he is currently serving out a sentence for killing his wife's lover. Despite the fact that his parole hearing is only two weeks away Pryor is desperate to be at his son's hospital bedside. His nine-year-old son, Thomas, was injured in an automobile accident in Los Angeles and is in critical condition. Just days before Christmas, Pryor hits a prison guard, escapes and heads for the Louisiana swamps. Avoiding the tracking teams assisted by dogs, Pryor makes it to the highway where he hitches a farm truck ride to the nearest town. In town he breaks into a sporting goods store where he takes two firearms and ammo, a knife and hunting clothing leaving an IOU note in lieu of payment. Over the radio he gets the latest news and learns that someone has killed the prison guard who tried to prevent his escape from prison. It's obvious that someone is trying to pin the prison murder on him and frame him. Meanwhile, Louisiana's governor assigns Pryor's escape case to Inspector Markley, a tracking specialist. Inspector Markley decides to start the pursuit in Texas, on a hunch that Pryor might be heading that way in order to reach California. Things get even more complicated when Pryor starts carjacking people and taking hostages in his obsessive aim to reach his injured son in Los Angeles before Christmas.

Cast
Production
In November 1977 Peppard announced he wanted to direct and star in The Long Escape. "Directing is something I've wanted to do a long time," he said.Peppard later said he decided to direct because "I couldn't hire anyone else as cheaply" and says the experience "somehow cleared my head of all the negative feelings I had towards acting."Peppard made the film with much of his own money. He later stated that it cost $1 million to produce. "I'm quite proud of it," he said in 1979. "I sold many assets to help make it but I don't mind. It was the best time of my life. Maybe it would have been a better film with a better script - I don't know - but I just didn't have any money to spare." He later said he disliked acting and directing at the same time.Peppard said he wrote most of the script but did not take credit. "That would be too much of an ego trip."His then wife Sherry Boucher played a small role and Bocher's sister Savannah was cast as Peppard's love interest.
In December 1977 the film was sold to Universal, by which time Peppard and Boucher were separated. This was attributed to the stress of making the movie.Peppard said he sold the film for $1,250,000, thus allowing him to repay his investors within nine months of the sale.

Release
The film received a regional release on April 21, 1978, opening in eight cities in Arizona, Louisiana and Mississippi before expanding into Southern and Central states before opening in Los Angeles on March 9, 1979.

Critical reception
The Los Angeles Times said the film was "calculated to warm the cockles of every heart in sight... pleasantly insignificant".

Legacy
Bill Conti's love theme Come With Me Now was the inspiration to the theme tune to Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous, hosted by the late Robin Leach.  It had also been used as one of the theme songs for local morning program AM Los Angeles on KABC-TV.
Passage 8:
Piper Kerman
Piper Eressea Kerman (born September 28, 1969) is an American author. She was indicted in 1998 on charges of felonious money-laundering activities, and sentenced to 15 months' detention in a federal correctional facility, of which she eventually served 13 months. Her memoir of her prison experiences, Orange Is the New Black: My Year in a Women's Prison (2010), was adapted into the critically-acclaimed Netflix original comedy-drama series Orange Is the New Black (2013). Since leaving prison, Kerman has spoken widely about women in prison and problems with the federal prison system. She now works as a communication strategist for non-profit organizations.

Early life and education
Kerman was born in Boston into a family with a number of attorneys, doctors and educators. She graduated from Swampscott High School in Swampscott, Massachusetts, in 1987, and Smith College in 1992. Kerman is a self-described WASP; however, she had a paternal grandfather who was Russian-Jewish.

Criminal career
In 1993, Kerman became romantically involved with Catherine Cleary Wolters (Nora Janson in her memoir: Laura Prepon's character Alex Vause in the series), a heroin dealer working for an alleged Nigerian kingpin. Kerman laundered money for the drug operation.In 1998, Kerman was indicted for money laundering and drug trafficking and she pled guilty. Starting in 2004, she served 13 months of a 15-month sentence at FCI Danbury, a minimum security prison located in Danbury, Connecticut.During her sentence, she built her website "The Pipe Bomb" to document her life behind bars.

Later career
Kerman's best-selling memoir about her experiences in prison, Orange Is the New Black: My Year in a Women's Prison, was published by Spiegel & Grau on April 6, 2010. A television adaptation of the same name created by Jenji Kohan, the Emmy award-winning creator of Weeds, premiered on July 11, 2013, on Netflix and aired for seven seasons. Kerman's character in the series ("Piper Chapman") is played by Taylor Schilling.
Orange is the New Black has received critical acclaim and won four Emmy Awards.Kerman serves on the board of the Women's Prison Association and is frequently invited to speak to students of creative writing, criminology, gender and women's studies law, and sociology, and to groups, like the American Correctional Association's Disproportionate Minority Confinement Task Force, federal probation officers, public defenders, justice reform advocates and volunteers, book club and formerly and currently incarcerated people.On February 10, 2014, Kerman received the 2014 Justice Trailblazer Award from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice Center on Media, Crime & Justice.On February 25, 2014, Kerman testified at a hearing on "Reassessing Solitary Confinement" before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights chaired by Assistant Majority Leader Dick Durbin.On August 4, 2015, Kerman testified at a hearing on "Oversight of the Bureau of Prisons: First-Hand Accounts of Challenges Facing the Federal Prison System" before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee chaired by Senator Ron Johnson.Since 2015, Kerman has worked as a communications strategist for nonprofits.Since her prison sentence, Kerman has spoken publicly many times on behalf of women in corrections and about her experience.In 2019, she appeared as a guest in the last episode of Orange Is the New Black in the last scene in the Ohio prison, when Piper visited Alex. Kerman sat two seats to the left of Alex as a convict visited by her husband (in real life). She makes a cameo appearance in the show’s opening credits as the convict who blinks.

Personal life
Kerman has said, "I'm bisexual, so I'm a part of the gay community (LGBT+)". She came out around the age of 18, and identified herself as a lesbian during most of her youth. On May 21, 2006, Kerman married writer Larry Smith.  Kerman and Smith live in Columbus, Ohio, and she teaches writing classes at the Marion Correctional Institution and the Ohio Reformatory for Women in nearby Marysville, Ohio. She does not identify with any religion. She was awarded the 'Humanist Heroine of the Year Award' from the 'Humanist Hub' group at Harvard University.

Works
Orange Is the New Black: My Year in a Women's Prison
Finding My Way Back

See also
Teresa Giudice, reality star and media personality whose prison memoir, Turning the Tables (2015), describes her 15-month incarceration from 2015 to 2016, for fraud, at the Federal Correctional Institution, Danbury, CT
Martha Stewart, celebrity who was incarcerated from 2004 to 2005, for offenses related to insider trading, at Federal Prison Camp, Alderson, WV
Passage 9:
Tanisha Smith
Tanisha Smith (born May 11, 1988) is a former professional basketball player who was drafted by the Seattle Storm in the second round of the 2011 WNBA draft. She played college basketball for Texas A&M and University of Arkansas – Fort Smith.

Texas A&M statistics
Source
Passage 10:
Joy Harmon
Patricia Joy Harmon or Joy Patricia Harmon (born May 1, 1940) is an American baker and former actress.

Early years
The daughter of Homer Harmon, Joy Patricia Harmon was born in Jackson Heights, New York, or Flushing, New York. She and her family moved to Connecticut in 1946. She was a Miss Connecticut, She tied for fourth runner-up in the 1957 competition for Miss Connecticut.When she was three years old, Harmon modeled clothes in Fox Movietone News newsreels. She skipped two grades in elementary school and graduated from Staples High School in Westport, Connecticut.

Career
Harmon's stage debut came in Pajama Tops at the Klein Memorial Theatre in Bridgeport, Connecticut. She toured the United States in stock company productions, including The Marriage-Go-Round, The Solid Gold Cadillac, The Tender Trap, The Importance of Being Ernest, and Susan Slept Here. On Broadway, Harmon portrayed Betty Phillips in Make a Million (1958). She also appeared in an off-Broadway production of Susan Slept Here (1961).Harmon was a contestant during the last season of Groucho Marx's television program You Bet Your Life (titled The Groucho Show during its last season), and later a regular on Marx's program Tell It to Groucho (credited as "Patty Harmon"). She guest-starred on several 1960s TV series, including Gidget, Batman, and The Monkees. She appeared in a cameo role as blonde Ardice in the Jack Lemmon comedy Under the Yum Yum Tree in 1963. She had a role as Tony Dow's girlfriend in the 1965–66 television soap opera Never Too Young.
Harmon's stand-out acting roles include the 30-foot-tall (9 m) Merrie in Village of the Giants (1965, in which she captures normal-sized Johnny Crawford and suspends him from her bikini top), and the car-washing Lucille in Cool Hand Luke (1967) with her purportedly 41–22–36 measurements.

Personal life
Harmon was married to film editor and producer Jeff Gourson from 1968 to 2001, raising three children. For a time, a son worked at Walt Disney Studios. She later established a bakery, Aunt Joy's Cakes, in Burbank, California.

Filmography
Passage 11:
Christine Collins (rower)
Christine Smith-Collins (born September 9, 1969 in Darien, Connecticut) is an American rower. Prior to her rowing for team USA, Collins rowed for the Trinity College women's crew team.
Passage 12:
Hannibal (Leckie novel)
Hannibal is a 1995 historical novel by Scottish writer Ross Leckie. The book relates the exploits of Hannibal's invasion of Rome beginning in 218 BC, narrated by the Carthaginian general in his retirement. It was the first of the Carthage trilogy, covering the Punic Wars. The novel received mixed reviews, mainly due to the extreme violence occasionally described in the narrative.

Synopsis
Beginning with the general's youth and a potted history of Carthage in an attempt to explain Hannibal's hatred of Rome, the bulk of the story is confined to the invasion of Italy and the epic journey Hannibal's army took to reach its goal, including the voyage across the Straits of Gibraltar with his elephants on rafts, the far from easy passage through Spain and of course, the incredible feat of taking his entire army with their elephants over the Alps. The events described are often violent and sometimes quite horrific in their cruelty both on the journey and in the fighting which took place on Italian soil as Hannibal's army sweeps through the Italian countryside seeking to out-manoeuvre his Roman opponents.

Reviews
http://www.nytimes.com/1996/12/29/books/torture-carnage-elephants.html
Fiction Book Review: Hannibal by Ross Leckie, Author Regnery Publishing $19.95 (0p) ISBN 978-0-89526-443-5
Hannibal (The Carthage Trilogy, #1) by Ross Leckie | Goodreads