Passage 1:
The Heroes (1980 film)
The Heroes, also known as The Shaolin Heroes, is a 1980 Hong Kong martial arts film directed by Wu Ma and Pao Hsueh-li and starring Ti Lung, Shih Szu and Danny Lee.

Plot
During the Qing Dynasty, the imperial court views the righteous Shaolin Temple as an eyesore and sends a group of soldiers to destroy the temple, led by chief Ko Fei (Ti Lung), a former Shaolin disciple. After Shaolin was destroyed, all of its disciples were captured and detained. Although Ko made them work as hard labors, he was actually helping them increase their physical strength to refine their martial arts. On the surface, Ko seems to be working for the imperial court, but he was assisting his fellow disciples to recover Shaolin. However, his fellow disciples did not accept the token of his appreciation. Afterwards, the disciples fled and revolted before killing the Emperor (Michael Chan). At that time, Ko was also killed and his heroic deed was not known even after he died. Ko is considered a true hero who can tolerate the most insult and humiliation.

Cast
Ti Lung as Ko Fei / Wong Fei
Shih Szu as Princess
Danny Lee as Righteous Monk
Michael Chan as Qing Emperor
Dorian Tan as Si Ying
Wong Chung as Fong Gau
Wong Ching as Gap toothed official
Goo Chang as Bald official
Wu Ma as Ng Ging
Tsai Hung
Lee Ho
Joh Yau
Chan Pik Fung
Sit Hon as Abbot
Wong Yeuk ping
Ma King Shun
Cho Boon Feng
Lau Yau Bun
Wong Kwok Fai
Robert Tai
Ko Chang Sheng

Theme song
Hero (英雄)
Composer: Joseph Koo
Lyricist: Chang Cheh
Singer: Jenny Tseng

Reception
J. Doyle Wallis of DVD Talk gave the film 4.5 out of 5 stars and a positive review praising it for having "one of the better plots in kung fu filmdom" as well as the action choreography and pacing.
Passage 2:
Snow White and the Huntsman
Snow White and the Huntsman is a 2012 American fantasy film based on the German fairy tale "Snow White" compiled by the Brothers Grimm. The directorial debut of Rupert Sanders, it was written by Evan Daugherty, John Lee Hancock and Hossein Amini, from a screen story by Daugherty. The cast includes Kristen Stewart, Charlize Theron, Chris Hemsworth, Sam Claflin, and Bob Hoskins in his final film performance. In the film's retelling of the tale, Snow White grows up imprisoned by her evil stepmother, Queen Ravenna, a powerful sorceress. After Snow White escapes into the forest, Ravenna enlists Eric the Huntsman to capture her, but he becomes her companion in a quest to overthrow Ravenna.
Snow White and the Huntsman was theatrically released in the United Kingdom on May 30, 2012 and in the United States on June 1, 2012, by Universal Pictures. The film was a box office success, having grossed $396 million worldwide against a $170 million budget. Critics praised the production design and visual effects, Theron's and Hemsworth's performances, and the score; action sequences and Stewart's and Claflin's performances received mixed reviews while the screenplay was heavily criticized. The film received two Oscar nominations for Best Visual Effects and Best Costume Design at the 85th Academy Awards.
A prequel/sequel, titled The Huntsman: Winter's War, directed by the first film's visual effects supervisor Cedric Nicolas-Troyan, was released on April 22, 2016, with Hemsworth, Theron, Claflin and Nick Frost reprising their roles and new characters being played by Emily Blunt and Jessica Chastain, though Stewart only appeared in archive footage.

Plot
While admiring a bright red rose blooming during a white winter, Queen Eleanor of the Kingdom of Tabor pricks her finger on its thorns. Drops of blood fall onto the snow, and she wishes for a daughter with skin as white as snow, lips as red as blood, hair as black as a raven's wings, and a heart as strong as the rose. 
The queen gives birth to Snow White but falls ill and dies many years later. After her death, Snow White's father, King Magnus, and his army battle an invading army of glass soldiers. King Magnus finds a prisoner called Ravenna, becomes enchanted with her beauty and marries her.
Ravenna is in fact a powerful sorceress who used the false glass army to charm her way into the kingdom. On their wedding night, she confesses that there was a king much like Magnus that used her, hurt her, then discarded her. She kills Magnus before taking over the kingdom. Snow White's childhood friend William and his father, Duke Hammond, escape but are unable to rescue her, and she is locked away in a tower for years.
Tabor and its people deteriorate under Queen Ravenna’s rule. She periodically drains the youth from the kingdom's young women in order to maintain a spell cast over her as a child by her mother, which allows Ravenna to keep her youthful beauty. When Ravenna's stepdaughter Snow White comes of age, the Queen learns from her Magic Mirror that Snow White is destined to destroy her unless Ravenna consumes the girl's heart, which will make her immortal. 
Ravenna sends her brother Finn to bring her the princess but Snow White escapes into the Dark Forest, where Ravenna has no power. The Queen makes a bargain with Eric the Huntsman, a widower and drunkard, to capture Snow White, promising to bring his wife back to life in exchange. But when Finn reveals that Ravenna does not actually have the power to revive the dead, the Huntsman helps Snow White escape. The Duke and William learn that Snow White is alive so William leaves the castle to find her, joining Finn's group as a bowman.
Snow White saves the Huntsman's life by charming a troll that attacks them. They make their way to a fishing village populated by women who have disfigured themselves to make themselves useless to Ravenna. The Huntsman learns Snow White's true identity, and leaves her in the care of the women. He returns when he sees the village being burned down by Finn's men. Snow White and the Huntsman evade them and meet a band of eight dwarfs. The blind dwarf, Muir, perceives that Snow White is the only person who can end Ravenna's reign.
As they travel through a fairy sanctuary, they are attacked by Finn and his men. A battle ensues during which Finn, his men, and one of the dwarfs are killed. William joins the group on their journey to Hammond's castle. Ravenna disguises herself as William and tempts Snow White into eating a poisoned apple before fleeing. William kisses Snow White, though nothing happens. A single tear is shed from her eye. 
Snow White's body is taken to Hammond's castle. The Huntsman professes his regret for being unable to save her, as her heart and strength remind him of his wife, Sara. He kisses her yet does not notice a second tear fall from her eyes, as two kisses of true love breaks the spell. Snow White awakens and rallies the Duke's army to mount a siege against Ravenna.
The dwarfs infiltrate the castle through the sewers and open the gates, allowing the army inside. Snow White and Ravenna fight. Ravenna is about to kill her when Snow White uses a move the Huntsman taught her and stabs Ravenna to death. The kingdom once again enjoys peace as Snow White is crowned the new Queen of Tabor.

Cast
The Dwarves
The Dwarves were played by actors of average height who had their faces digitally transmuted onto small bodies. This caused a protest from the Little People of America.
Ian McShane as Beith, the leader of the Dwarves.
Bob Hoskins as Muir, the blind elder Dwarf, who possesses the powers of premonition. This was Hoskins's final role before his retirement from acting later in 2012 due to Parkinson's disease, and subsequent death in April 29, 2014.
Ray Winstone as Gort, an ill-tempered Dwarf.
Nick Frost as Nion, Beith's right-hand man.
Toby Jones as Coll, Duir's brother.
Eddie Marsan as Duir, Coll's brother.
Johnny Harris as Quert, Muir's son.
Brian Gleeson as Gus, the youngest of the Dwarves who develops a bond with Snow White and later sacrifices himself to save her.

Production
Development
Evan Daugherty initially wrote the screenplay in 2003, when he was studying at NYU. At the time, reboots of fairy tales weren't a popular film genre and, according to Daugherty, "no one really knew what to do with it." More problems came when the release of Terry Gilliam's The Brothers Grimm (2005) flopped at the box office which caused potential buyers to be hesitant about the script. The script was finally greenlit after the success of Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland (2010).

Casting
Film producers considered casting a lesser-known actress for the role of Snow White, with mention of Riley Keough, Felicity Jones, Bella Heathcote, Alicia Vikander, and Rachel Maxwell as possible picks. This idea became less likely as known actresses Dakota Fanning and Kristen Stewart were later rumored to be short-listed for the role. On March 4, 2011 co-producer Palak Patel confirmed that Stewart was offered the role. Winona Ryder was initially considered to play Queen Ravenna, before the role went to Charlize Theron. Tom Hardy was supposedly first offered the role of Eric, the Huntsman, but turned down the offer. The role was then apparently offered to Michael Fassbender, and then Johnny Depp, but both claim to have declined it. Viggo Mortensen was said to have been in negotiations with Universal for the part, but supposedly turned down the role, too. It was claimed that Hugh Jackman was offered the role, but that he declined. In 2011, Thor star Chris Hemsworth was eventually cast in the role of the Huntsman.

Filming
Principal photography took place in the United Kingdom. Most indoor scenes were shot at Pinewood Studios. The beach scenes were predominantly filmed in Pembrokeshire, Wales, on the Marloes Sands beach near the village of Marloes between September 26 and 29, 2011. Though the beach was not closed to the public during filming, as filming progressed, certain parts were advised to be off limits. A computer-generated castle was set on nearby Gateholm island. A field above the beach was used for production purposes, and a special wooden ramp was built for vehicles and horses to access the beach. Filming also took place at Frensham Small Pond. The film used academic consultants from the University of Chichester and the University of Oxford for back-up research on fairy tales and medieval battles.

Music
James Newton Howard composed the music for the film. The English band Florence and the Machine recorded "Breath of Life" exclusively for the film, which was reportedly inspired by Theron's character Queen Ravenna. Ioanna Gika of Io Echo performed "Gone", a song that is played at Gus's funeral in the film.

Release
The film had its premiere on May 14, 2012, at the Empire, Leicester Square, in London. The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray in Region 1 on September 11, 2012, with both the theatrical version (127 minutes) and an extended version (132 minutes) available on both formats. The film was released on the same formats in Region 2 on October 1, 2012.A book based on the film was published June 5, 2012

Reception
Box office
Snow White and the Huntsman earned $155.3 million in North America, along with $241.3 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $396.6 million. In North America, the film earned $1.38 million from midnight showings. For its opening day, the film topped the box office with $20.5 million. It debuted in first place at the box office during its opening weekend with $56.2 million. It is the seventeenth highest-grossing 2012 film. Outside North America, Snow White and the Huntsman had an opening of $39.3 million, ranking second overall for the weekend behind Men in Black 3; however, it ranked number 1 in 30 countries.

Critical response
Snow White and the Huntsman received mixed reviews from critics. The film has a 49% score on Rotten Tomatoes based on 238 reviews, with an average rating of 5.6/10. The site's consensus states: "While it offers an appropriately dark take on the fairy tale that inspired it, Snow White & the Huntsman is undone by uneven acting, problematic pacing, and a confused script." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 57 out of 100, based on 39 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". CinemaScore polls conducted revealed the average grade that filmgoers gave the film was a "B" on an A+ to F scale.David Edelstein of New York praised the film's revisionist tone and said the film was "strongly influenced by a lot of smart, feminist thinking". Roger Ebert gave the film 3.5 stars out of 4. A.O. Scott of The New York Times praised Theron's performance and also wrote, "Though it is an ambitious – at times mesmerizing – application of the latest cinematic technology, the movie tries to recapture some of the menace of the stories that used to be told to scare children rather than console them." Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly wrote, "Ravenna hates living in a world where men can feed on women's beauty and then toss them away. She's a fascist of feminism, and Theron's acting has the blood of operatic anger coursing through it." Betsy Sharkey of the Los Angeles Times said the film is, "an absolute wonder to watch and creates a warrior princess for the ages. But what this revisionist fairy tale does not give us is a passionate love – its kisses are as chaste as the snow is white." Rolling Stone's Peter Travers called it "a visual marvel" while noting that Stewart "morphs convincingly from a skittish girl into a determined warrior princess." MSN news said that Stewart "grows into her character, it seems, and eventually got this reviewer completely on her side." Colin Covert of the Minneapolis Star Tribune gave the film 4/4 stars. Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the movie a B+, calling it "Vastly superior to Mirror, Mirror", and praising Theron and Stewart's performances.Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian said that while the film is "less jokey than the recent Mirror Mirror", "this Twilightified fairytale has the same basic problem," and that, "The result is tangled and overblown." Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle called it "[a] slow, boring film that has no charm and is highlighted only by a handful of special effects and Charlize Theron's truly evil queen." Michael O'Sullivan of The Washington Post also gave the film a negative review: "Overlong, overcrowded, overstimulating and with an over-the-top performance by Charlize Theron as the evil queen Ravenna, the movie is a virtual orchard of toxic excess, starting with the unnecessarily sprawling cast of characters." Lisa Kennedy of The Denver Post gave the film two out of four stars and said, "Only Bob Hoskins as the blind seer Muir comes close to making us care. We can almost glean Snow White's heroic possibilities through his clouded eyes. As much as we'd like to, we certainly can't from Stewart's efforts." Film Comment's Scott Foundas states that "Stewart’s Snow White... pouts her lips, bats her bedroom eyes, and scarcely seems to have more on her mind than who might take her to the senior prom—let alone the destiny of an entire kingdom."

Accolades
Sequel
A sequel was planned, with director Rupert Sanders in talks to return. In August 2012, The Hollywood Reporter reported that the sequel was shelved in the aftermath of the scandal involving Sanders cheating on his wife with Stewart and that a spin-off film concentrating on the Huntsman was planned instead, which would not star Stewart. Universal announced a few days later that they were not shelving the sequel. A 2012 report stated that Universal has authorized a sequel and Stewart was set to reprise her role, but without Sanders to return as the director due to the scandal. The script was written and production was set to begin in 2013.The film was originally scheduled for release in 2015. In September 2013, Chris Hemsworth stated he did not know anything about the sequel while speaking to E!. On June 4, 2014, Deadline reported that Frank Darabont, Gavin O'Connor and Andrés Muschietti were on the shortlist to direct the sequel. On June 26, 2014, Deadline reported that Darabont was in talks to direct the sequel.  Originally Legendary Pictures was set to co-finance the film with Universal but dropped out and were replaced by Perfect World Pictures. On July 31, 2014, the project was described as a prequel titled The Huntsman scheduled for April 22, 2016, which would not star Stewart as Snow White. In January 2015, Darabont left the project as director, but the third leading role was set with Emily Blunt. It was later announced that Cedric Nicolas-Troyan would take over as the new director for the film. Nick Frost would return as Dwarf Nion and Jessica Chastain would star. On March 18, 2015, Rob Brydon, Alexandra Roach and Sheridan Smith were added to the cast as dwarves. TheWrap confirmed on May 7, 2015, that Sam Claflin would return as William in this sequel.It was later revealed that the film would feature Ravenna's sister, the Ice Queen, and would reveal the origins of the Huntsman, while also continuing the story of the first film.The film, which is both a prequel and a sequel, was released in 2016 as The Huntsman: Winter's War.

See also
Snow White, an upcoming film based on the 1937 animated film, starring Rachel Zegler as Snow White and Gal Gadot as the Evil Queen.
Mirror Mirror, another 2012 film based on the tale of Snow White, starring Lily Collins as Snow White and Julia Roberts as Queen Clementianna, Snow White's evil stepmother.
Maleficent, similar dark/modern take on an old fairy tale
Passage 3:
South Beach, Florida
South Beach is a census-designated place (CDP) on North Hutchinson Island in Indian River County, Florida, United States. The population was 3,501 at the 2010 census. It is ranked tenth in Florida locations by per capita income as of 2010.
South Beach is part of the Sebastian–Vero Beach Metropolitan Statistical Area.

Geography
South Beach is located in southeastern Indian River County at 27°35′45″N 80°20′17″W, on Orchid Island. It is bounded on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, on the south by the border between Indian River and St Lucie counties, on the west by the Indian River Lagoon, and on the north by the Vero Beach city limits.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 6.8 square miles (17.7 km2), of which 2.7 square miles (7.0 km2) are land and 4.1 square miles (10.7 km2), or 60.31%, are water.

Demographics
As of the census of 2000, there were 3,457 people, 1,610 households, and 1,220 families residing in the CDP.  The population density was 1,279.8 inhabitants per square mile (494.1/km2).  There were 2,066 housing units at an average density of 764.9 per square mile (295.3/km2).  The racial makeup of the CDP was 98.15% White, 0.58% African American, 0.09% Native American, 1.01% Asian, 0.06% from other races, and 0.12% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.36% of the population.
There were 1,610 households, out of which 15.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 72.7% were married couples living together, 2.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 24.2% were non-families. 21.5% of all households were made up of individuals, and 15.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.14 and the average family size was 2.45.
In the CDP, the population was spread out, with 13.7% under the age of 18, 1.4% from 18 to 24, 11.3% from 25 to 44, 30.3% from 45 to 64, and 43.2% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 61 years. For every 100 females, there were 93.2 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.6 males.
The median income for a household in the CDP was $108,702, and the median income for a family was $126,755. Males had a median income of $89,395 versus $26,607 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $90,938.  About 1.4% of families and 3.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 8.0% of those under age 18 and 3.0% of those age 65 or over.
Passage 4:
Paoskoto
Paoskoto (often Paoscoto or Paos Koto) is a village and rural commune in Paoskoto Arrondissement in the Nioro du Rip Department of the Kaolack Region of Senegal, located near the border with the Gambia.

History
On 30 November 1865, Maba Diakhou Bâ battled against Émile Pinet-Laprade at the Battle of Paoskoto, in a notable historical battle between the natives and the French colonizers.

Geography
The nearest localities are Keur Oumar Tounkara, Dafar, Keur Gaye Hamdalaye, Mbiteyene, Tayyiba Niassène, Keur bidja Uri Keur Ali Gueye, Nioro du Rip and Diamaguene.

Demographics
According to PEPAM (Programme d'eau potable et d'assainissement du Millénaire) the rural commune of Paoskoto has a population 43,460 and 4,061 households. The population of the village of Paoskoto amounts to 2,411 inhabitants in 225 households. The Wolof and Fulani tribes form the majority.

Bibliography
(in French) A. K. Mbaye, L’épopée de Maba Diakhou Ba du Rip, mémoire de maîtrise, Dakar, Faculté des Lettres et Sciences humaines, Département de Lettres modernes, 1996
(in French) Kélétigui S. Keita, Maba Diakhou Ba dans le Rip et le Saloum (1861-1867), Dakar, Université de Dakar, 1970, 165 p. (Mémoire de Maîtrise)

External links
(in French) Paoskoto at PEPAM
Passage 5:
Stinson Beach, California
Stinson Beach is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Marin County, California, on the west coast of the United States. Stinson Beach is located 2.5 miles (4 km) east-southeast of Bolinas, at an elevation of 26 feet (8 m). The population of the Stinson Beach CDP was 541 at the 2020 census.Stinson Beach is about a 35-minute drive from the Golden Gate Bridge on California's Highway 1. It is near important attractions such as Muir Woods National Monument, Muir Beach, and Mount Tamalpais.  It has a long beach, and the cold water produces fog throughout the year.Stinson Beach is a popular day trip for people in the San Francisco Bay Area and for tourists visiting Northern California. Although most visitors arrive by private car, Stinson Beach is linked to Marin City by a daily bus service, and the network of hiking trails around Mount Tamalpais also reaches the town. The beach is one of the cleanest in the state, and sandy, unlike the rockier neighboring beach in Bolinas.

History
Nathan H. Stinson bought land at the site in 1866.In 1870, the first road was built along the Pacific coast from Sausalito, and a tent settlement sprang up amongst the willow trees at the beach, which gave rise to the town's original name, Willow Camp. The Mt. Tamalpais & Muir Woods Railway opened in 1896, making Willow Camp more accessible. Visitors could ride the train to West Point Inn and then hike or arrange a stagecoach to take them to the beach. In 1906, refugees from the San Francisco earthquake came to the area and built some of the area's first businesses. Stinson Beach became the official town name in 1916, in honor of the largest landowners, Rose and Nathan Stinson.

The first post office opened in 1916.In 1939, the beach was sold to Marin County.  It was transferred to the state of California in 1950, and was eventually transferred to the National Park Service in 1977.
In 2002, a surfer was attacked by a 12-to-15-foot-long (3.7 to 4.6 m) great white shark while surfing off Stinson Beach. The young man survived, but received more than 100 stitches to close his wounds. The attack was the second in Stinson Beach, and the 13th in Marin County since 1952. In 1998, Jonathan Kathrein was attacked by a great white shark while bodyboarding. His injury from the shark bite required over 600 stitches. The surf off Stinson Beach is within an area known as the Red Triangle, where there have been an unusually high number of shark attacks.Marin County added 12 tsunami warning signs to the Stinson Beach shoreline in 2012 to explain the risk to beachgoers.

Geography
Stinson Beach is located in southern Marin County at 37°54′02″N 122°38′40″W, between Bolinas and Muir Beach. It is 15 miles (24 km) by road northwest of Sausalito and 20 miles (32 km) northwest of San Francisco.
The CDP has a total area of 0.89 square miles (2.31 km2), all of it recorded as land.

Climate
According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Stinson Beach has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated "Csb" on climate maps. Like much of the California coast, summer afternoons are often cool and windy (and usually foggy) as winds blow in off the cold ocean.  Adjacent sea surface temperatures are typically in the low to mid 50s F year-round.  It receives more rain than other coast cities in the San Francisco Bay Area in this latitude with 1,034.70 mm (40.736 in) of rain.

Demographics
2010
The 2010 United States Census reported that Stinson Beach had a population of 632. The population density was 433.1 inhabitants per square mile (167.2/km2). The racial makeup of Stinson Beach was 582 (92.1%) White, 3 (0.5%) African American, 8 (1.3%) Native American, 14 (2.2%) Asian, 1 (0.2%) Pacific Islander, 9 (1.4%) from other races, and 15 (2.4%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 33 persons (5.2%).
The Census reported that 629 people (99.5% of the population) lived in households, 3 (0.5%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.
There were 339 households, out of which 50 (14.7%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 134 (39.5%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 14 (4.1%) had a female householder with no husband present, 10 (2.9%) had a male householder with no wife present.  There were 26 (7.7%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 8 (2.4%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 147 households (43.4%) were made up of individuals, and 45 (13.3%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 1.86.  There were 158 families (46.6% of all households); the average family size was 2.54.
The population was spread out, with 76 people (12.0%) under the age of 18, 26 people (4.1%) aged 18 to 24, 117 people (18.5%) aged 25 to 44, 278 people (44.0%) aged 45 to 64, and 135 people (21.4%) who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 54.4 years. For every 100 females, there were 94.5 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.1 males.
There were 773 housing units at an average density of 529.8 per square mile (204.6/km2), of which 209 (61.7%) were owner-occupied, and 130 (38.3%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.3%; the rental vacancy rate was 9.7%.  425 people (67.2% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 204 people (32.3%) lived in rental housing units.

2000
As of the census of 2000, there were 751 people, 374 households, and 178 families residing in the CDP.  The population density was 712 inhabitants per square mile (275/km2).  There were 693 housing units at an average density of 657 per square mile (254/km2).  The racial makeup of the CDP in 2010 was 89.6% non-Hispanic White, 0.5% non-Hispanic African American, 0.2% Native American, 2.2% Asian, 0.2% from Pacific Islander, 0.5% from other races, and 1.6% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 5.2% of the population.
There were 374 households, out of which 18.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 40.6% were married couples living together, 4.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 52.4% were non-families. 42.0% of all households were made up of individuals, and 11.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 1.98 and the average family size was 2.75.
In the CDP, the population was spread out, with 16.9% under the age of 18, 3.3% from 18 to 24, 25.8% from 25 to 44, 39.4% from 45 to 64, and 14.5% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 47 years. For every 100 females, there were 98.2 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 100.0 males.
The median income for a household in the CDP was $87,679, and the median income for a family was $105,827. Males had a median income of $58,750 versus $56,875 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $62,452.  About 3.8% of families and 5.1% of the population were below the poverty line, including 11.8% of those under the age of eighteen and 10.4% of those 65 or over.

Education
Stinson Beach is in the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District, the Tamalpais Union High School District, and the Marin Community College District.  Students in primary grades (K-2) attend Stinson Beach School, while elementary grade students (grades 3–8) attend Bolinas School.  Stinson Beach is in the attendance area of Tamalpais High School, in Mill Valley.

Government
Stinson Beach is unincorporated, receiving general government services from Marin County, including law enforcement, land use planning, library, public health, and code enforcement. Three special districts provide local services.  The Stinson Beach County Water District provides water and septic tank maintenance service and contracts for garbage and recycling collection.  The Stinson Beach Volunteer Fire Protection District provides fire protection, emergency medical care, and disaster management services.  The Marin County Flood Control and Water Conservation District administers programs which aim to mitigate flooding, historically concentrating on issues related to the flooding of Easkoot Creek.

Community organizations
The Stinson Beach Village Association was formed in 1976 to represent the town as the County developed the first Stinson Beach Community Plan. The Village Association's current elected president is village resident Michael Matthews.  Previously, development of the town had been promoted by the Stinson Beach Progressive Club, one of several non-profit organizations that formed the board of the Stinson Beach Community Center.  The other founding organizations were the Allied Arts Club, the Stinson Beach Community Church, The Volunteer Fire Department, and the Parent-Teachers Club.  The Community Center complex on Belvedere Avenue includes the Fire House, which fronts on Shoreline Highway, the Community Center, and the Chapel.  The land was donated by the FitzHenrys and the other heirs of the Stinson families.

Regional recreation areas
Audubon Canyon Ranch
Golden Gate National Recreation Area
Mount Tamalpais State Park
Point Reyes National Seashore

Annual events
On the second Sunday of June, the town serves as the ending point for the annual running of the Dipsea Race, the second-oldest footrace in the U.S. The California Road Club holds its Mount Tamalpais Hill Climb, one of the oldest bicycle races in the West, in early fall.  Since 2002, the race has been held on the third Saturday of the month, with about 400 bicyclists competing in the 12.5-mile (20.1 km) road race from Stinson to the head of Bolinas Lagoon and on to the West summit of Mount Tamalpais at Rock Spring."Cuisine on the Green" is a yearly event held in the town's central park, the Village Green, each May. It features local restaurants and merchants selling a wide variety of foods, trinkets, clothing, art, and novelty items at different booths. Talent local to the area often performs on the small park stage. Cuisine on the Green benefits the Stinson Beach Community Center.
On July 4 of every year, a "tug-of-war" is held with Bolinas across the inlet dividing the two communities. Thirty women from each shore pull against each other until a winner is declared, and then 30 men from each take their turn. It is a slice of life, pure Americana, and always contested both during the actual event and then afterward in the local bars of Smiley's and the Sand Dollar, where the winners' trophies are displayed.

Notable people
Residents, landowners, and summer people important in the development, life, and culture of Stinson Beach.  Arrival or tenure is shown in square brackets.  Birth and death dates are shown in parentheses.

Rafael Garcia [1836–1846], first settler on Bolinas Lagoon.
Gregorio (1791–May 10, 1863) and Ramona Garcia Briones (1793/4–June 23, 1901), received the Rancho Las Baulines Mexican land grant on February 11, 1846; after being widowed, Ramona married Benancio Munos when she was almost 80; when she died at the age of 107, Ramona Garcia Munos was believed to be the oldest woman in California.
Pablo Briones [1837–?], with his uncle, Rafael Garcia, managed the Rancho for his parents, Gregorio and Ramona; trained as curandero by his aunt, Juana Briones de Miranda; settled in Bolinas.
Captain Isaac Morgan [c. 1851–?], purchased the portion of Rancho Las Baulines east of Bolinas Lagoon in 1852; on this property, called Belvidere Ranch and which was to become Stinson Beach, he grew apples, cut wood, built boats, and had a dairy farm; in 1866, as lead partner in the Morgan Land Company, purchased the Page Tract, which ran from Belvidere Ranch to Dogtown and which became the Bourne and Wilkins Ranches.
Nathan and Rose Stinson [1870s–?], established first campground at Willow Camp.
Captain Alfred Easkoot [1870s–], Marin County surveyor; founder of second campground.; member of Duxbury Grove No. 26, UAOD
Thaddeus Welch (1844–1919) and Ludmila Pilat Welch (1867–1925) [1896–1905], American painters
William Kent (March 29, 1864 – March 13, 1928) United States Congressman; donor of the land for the Muir Woods National Monument; owner of the beach and tidelands that became Seadrift.
Newman Lee Fitzhenry (1881–November 20, 1938) [c. 1913–1938], BS, University of Chicago, 1905; married Eve Stinson and pursued real estate and resort development; suicided November 20, 1938.
William Kent Jr., began the development of the Seadrift subdivision in the 1950s.
Mildred Sadler (May 16, 1905 – February 18, 2004) (1926–2004), Principal, Stinson Beach School, 1926–1967.
Landis Everson (1960s), poet and painter.
George Hunter White, also known as Colonel White (1965–1975) (died October 23, 1975), Federal Bureau of Narcotics agent and District Supervisor, retired; OSS Counter-Intelligence Director during WWII; led Project MKULTRA in Boston and Operation Midnight Climax in New York and San Francisco brothels (or "safehouses") until the closure of the San Francisco facilities in 1965; Fire Marshall, Stinson Beach Fire Department
Elmer Collett (1966–present), former professional football player for the 49ers and the Colts
Peter Bishop Allen (November 1, 1943 – June 3, 2004) (c. 1967–2004), sculptor of marine mammals; Assistant Chief, Stinson Beach Fire Department; founder of The Kids Camp nature education program
Steve Miller (1960s–1970s), musician
Jerry Garcia (1970s), musician
Carolyn Garcia, also known as Mountain Girl (1970s), member of Merry Pranksters, wife of Jerry Garcia
Keith and Donna Godchaux (1970s), musicians
Peter Rowan (1970s), musician
Richard Jencks - former President of CBS.
The Rowan Brothers – Lorin and Chris Rowan (1970s), musicians
David Grisman (1970s), musician
George Frayne (born c. 1946) (c. 1973–199), musician (Commander Cody and His Lost Planet Airmen) and artist; Frayne has referred to Stinson Beach as "formerly the grooviest place on earth."
Joseph Esherick (1987), famed architect; designed a home on Sea Drift Road
James Grant (1924–1997) (c. 1980–1997), painter and sculptor; the art exhibit wall at the Stinson Beach Branch Library is named in his honor
Jerry Cebe (August 10, 1940 - Sep 1, 2017), artist (abstract painting; art glass)
Klaus Kinski

In popular culture
Stinson Beach has been the setting and filming location for several movies, including:

Play It Again, Sam
The Fog
Memoirs of an Invisible Man
The Invisible Man (2020 film); this adaptation is unrelated to the novel & film listed above.
Basic Instinct
On The Edge
Shoot The Moon
 The Crazy-Quilt (1966 John Korty Film)
America Is Still the PlaceThe town was mentioned in an episode of M*A*S*H—"The Merchant of Korea".  In the episode, BJ borrows $200 from Charles to wire home to his wife as a down payment on the purchase of a one-acre lot with "trees, the beach, a view of San Francisco...everything!"
George Frayne (Commander Cody) wrote a song about Stinson Beach entitled "Midnight on The Strand". It was recorded on his 1987 album, Let's Rock.
The town and the beach are the topic of a poem by Garrison Keillor. In We Are Still Married: Stories and Letters, Keillor has a four-page essay about his visits to Stinson Beach and how thinking of the beach helps him sleep.The poet Robert Duncan wrote his influential collection Opening the Field at a house in Stinson Beach.Janis Joplin's cremated ashes were scattered along this beach as well as the Pacific Ocean.The story of a young surfer's recovery from a shark attack is the subject of a book, Far from Shore.Author Danielle Steel writes about Stinson Beach in her novel One Day at a Time (Dell, 2009, ISBN 978-0-440-24333-5).

See also
List of beaches in California
List of California state parks
Passage 6:
Pao Sarasin
Police General Pao Sarasin (c. 1929 – March 7, 2013) was a Thai politician and former police officer. Sarasin served as the Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand, as well as the country's Interior Minister, in 1992.

Early life and education
Pao Sarasin was the son of former Prime Minister of Thailand Pote Sarasin and his wife, Thanpuying Siri Sarasin. He was one of three brothers, including Pong Sarasin and Arsa Sarasin. Pao Sarasin graduated from Vajiravudh College, a boarding school in Bangkok. He then moved to the United States, where he received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Johns Hopkins University and a second bachelor's degree from the University of California in criminology.

Careers
Sarasin enlisted the Royal Thai Police in 1954, rising to the rank of police general during his career. He served as the Chief of the force's Office of the Narcotics Control Board from 1978 until 1983. In 1987, he became the Chief of the Royal Thai Police.In 1992, Sarasin briefly held the posts of Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister under the Royal Thai Army military junta and the post-coup government of former Prime Minister Anand Panyarachun.During his later life, Sarasin served as the council presidents of both Mae Fah Luang University in Chiang Rai province and Khon Kaen University in Khon Kaen province.

Death
Pao Sarasin died at Siriraj Hospital in Bangkok after a month-long hospitalization for a blood infection on March 7, 2013, at the age of 83. A royal bathing rite ceremony for Sarasin was held at the Wat Benchamabophit with Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn in attendance representing the royal family. He was survived by his wife, Thapuying Tawika Sarasin, and three sons, including Thai television host, Kanit Sarasin.

Honours
Foreign honours
Malaysia : Honorary Commander of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia (P.S.M.) (1988)
 Malaysia : Honorary Commander of the Order of the Defender of the Realm (P.M.N.) (1993)

See also
Sarasin family
Passage 7:
John and Elizabeth Shaw Sundy House
The John and Elizabeth Shaw Sundy House is a historic home in Delray Beach, Florida, United States. It is located at 106 South Swinton Avenue. On January 16, 1992, it was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.
Passage 8:
The Beach (film)
The Beach is a 2000 adventure drama film directed by Danny Boyle, from a screenplay by John Hodge, based on the 1996 novel of the same name by Alex Garland. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Tilda Swinton, Virginie Ledoyen, Guillaume Canet, and Robert Carlyle. It was filmed on the Thai island of Ko Phi Phi Le.
The film was a moderate box office success but received mixed-to-negative reviews from critics.

Plot
Richard, a young American seeking adventure in Bangkok, stays in a drab travelers' hotel on Khao San Road where he meets a young French couple, Françoise and Étienne. He also meets Daffy, who tells him of a pristine, uninhabited island in the Gulf of Thailand with a beautiful hidden beach. Daffy explains that he settled there in secret several years earlier, but difficulties arose and he left. Daffy commits suicide, leaving Richard a map to the island. Richard persuades Françoise and Étienne to accompany him to the island, and the three travel to Ko Samui. Richard meets two American surfers who have heard rumors of the island and he gives them a copy of the map.
En route to the island, Richard becomes infatuated with Françoise. After swimming to the island from a neighbouring island, they find a cannabis plantation guarded by armed Thai farmers. Avoiding detection, they make their way across the island and meet Keaty, who brings them to a community of travellers living on the island in secret. Sal, the community's English leader, explains that the farmers allow them to stay so long as they keep to themselves and do not allow any more travelers to come to the island. Richard lies that they have not shown the map to anyone else. The trio becomes integrated into the community.
One night, Françoise invites Richard to the beach, where she tells him that she is falling in love with him and they start an affair.  Despite hoping to keep it secret, the community finds out. Although he is angry, Étienne says he will not stand in their way if Françoise is happier with Richard.
Sal selects Richard to accompany her on a supply run to Ko Pha Ngan. They encounter the American surfers who are preparing to search for the island and mention Richard's map. Sal is upset but believes Richard when he says they have no map. To ensure that Sal will not tell the rest of the island about the map, Richard has sex with her at her order.  On their return to the island, Richard lies to Françoise about having had sex with Sal.
Three of the community fishermen are attacked by a shark while spearfishing. One is killed and another, Christo, is severely injured. Now terrified of the water, Christo refuses to be taken to the mainland for medical treatment and Sal refuses to allow any doctors to be brought to the island to treat him. As the man's condition worsens, the islanders simply leave him in the jungle to die, but Etienne refuses to abandon him.
When the surfers turn up on the neighboring island, Sal orders Richard to send them away and destroy their map. She tells everyone that she and Richard had sex, which leaves Françoise angry and heartbroken, causing her to return to Étienne. Isolated from the group, Richard begins to lose his sanity, imagining that he is conversing with the deceased Daffy.
The surfers reach the island but are discovered and killed by the farmers. Shocked at witnessing their deaths, Richard smothers Christo to put him out of his misery and gathers Françoise and Étienne to leave the island.
Richard is captured by the farmers along with Françoise and Étienne. The farmers are furious with the community for breaking their deal not to allow any more newcomers. The lead farmer gives Sal a gun loaded with a single bullet and orders her to make a choice: kill Richard and the group will be allowed to stay, or else they must all leave immediately. Sal pulls the trigger, but the chamber is empty. Shocked by her willingness to commit murder, the other members of the community abandon Sal, leave the island, and go their separate ways.
Back in the United States, Richard receives an email at an Internet cafe from Françoise with a nostalgic group photograph of the beach community in happier times.

Cast
Leonardo DiCaprio as Richard, a freelance traveler.
Tilda Swinton as Sal, the leader of the beach community.
Virginie Ledoyen as Françoise, the girlfriend of Étienne, and Richard's love interest.
Guillaume Canet as Étienne, the boyfriend of Françoise.
Robert Carlyle as Daffy, the eccentric former member of the beach community.
Paterson Joseph as Keaty, a member of the beach community who loves cricket.
Lars Arentz-Hansen as Bugs, Sal's South-African boyfriend and the beach community's carpenter.
Daniel Caltagirone as Unhygienix, the beach community's chef who has an obsession with soap due to having to always prepare the fish for consumption.
Staffan Kihlbom, Jukka Hiltunen, and Magnus Lindgren as Christo, Karl, and Sten, the beach community's Swedish fishermen.
Victoria Smurfit as Weathergirl, a member of the beach community whose tightening pelvis has been a sign for rain.
Zelda Tinska and Lidija Zovkić as Sonja and Mirjana, two beach community members who come from Sarajevo.
Samuel Gough as Guitarman, the beach community's residential guitarist who is not a good singer.
Peter Youngblood Hills and Jerry Swindall as Zeph and Sammy, two Americans whom Richard meets in Ko Samui.
Saskia Mulder and Simone Huber as Hilda and Eva, two women who accompany Zeph and Sammy to the island.
Peter Gevisser as Gregorio, an Italian member of the beach community.
Abhijati 'Meuk' Jusakul as the leader of the cannabis farmers.

Production
Ewan McGregor was cast as the main character before leaving due to disputes with the director. It was speculated that Boyle was offered additional funding under the condition that DiCaprio be cast and his character made American. Whilst promoting T2 Trainspotting on The Graham Norton Show, the dispute was discussed in more depth, with McGregor stating "It was a mis-handling and a mis-understanding over the film and it's a big regret of mine that it went on for so very long... and it didn't matter about The Beach, it was never about that. It was about our friendship. I felt like Danny's actor and it made me a bit rudderless." 
Boyle stated, "I handled it very very badly and I have apologised to Ewan for it. I felt a great shame about it and how it was handled."Members of the cast and crew were involved in a boating accident during production. It was reported that the incident involved both Boyle and DiCaprio. No one was injured.The beach seen in the film is not the same as in real life. There is a gap between mountains on the actual beach in Thailand. The special effects crew digitally added some of the surrounding mountains during the post-production phase.
The waterfall scene, where DiCaprio and others jump from a high cliff to the water below, was filmed in Khao Yai National Park in central Thailand, at the Haew Suwat Waterfall.
The map in the film was illustrated by the author of the book that The Beach was based upon, Alex Garland. He received credit for this as the cartographer.
In 1999, Hélène de Fougerolles auditioned for the film but casting directors immediately told her that she was not mysterious enough for the character as she arrived with blond hair in pigtails. She asked them if she could "be an extra or serve coffees there, three months in Thailand, it sounds idyllic!". Although firstly reluctant because the actress was already established in the industry, they finally accepted. As journalists were not allowed to come take pictures on set, the only picture the press could have of Guillaume Canet and Virginie Ledoyen before shooting started was their departure at Paris airport with de Fougerolles. They made it the cover of Studio Magazine, from which the international press reported her as officially cast. This eventually lent her lines edited out of the final cut but present in the DVD extras.

Release
The film opened February 11, 2000 in both the United Kingdom and the United States.The budget of the film was US$50 million. The film opened at number 2 at the box office in both the UK and the US, with a weekend gross of $15,277,921 in the United States and Canada behind Scream 3, and a gross of £2,418,321 in the United Kingdom behind Toy Story 2. Global takings totaled over US$144 million, of which US$39 million was from the United States and Canada.

Home video
The film has been released on VHS and DVD. It was released on Blu-ray in Spain in October 2022 . The standard DVD release included nine scenes that were deleted from the film, including an alternative opening which to an extent resembles the one in the novel. These  were later included in a Special Edition DVD release, along with Danny Boyle's commentary on what might have been their purpose. There is also an alternative ending which depicts Sal committing suicide and everyone loading up on a boat from the raft.

Soundtrack
The soundtrack for the film, co-produced by Pete Tong, features the international hits "Pure Shores" by All Saints and "Porcelain" by Moby, as well as tracks by New Order, Blur, Underworld, Orbital, Faithless, Sugar Ray, and others. Leftfield's contribution to the soundtrack, "Snakeblood", was found to have sampled Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark's "Almost" without permission, leading to a lawsuit; band member Neil Barnes said he forgot to remove the sample from the finished track. The songs "Synasthasia" by Junkie XL, "Out of Control" by The Chemical Brothers, "Fiesta Conga" by Movin' Melodies, "Redemption Song" by Bob Marley, "Neon Reprise" by Lunatic Calm and "Smoke Two Joints" by Chris Kay and Michael Kay were also included in the movie but omitted from the soundtrack. The teaser trailer for the film featured "Touched" by VAST.
The film score was composed by Angelo Badalamenti, and a separate album containing selections of his score was released as well.

Track listing
Year-end charts
Certifications
Reception
On Rotten Tomatoes the film holds an approval rating of 20% based on 119 reviews, and an average rating of 4.4/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "The Beach is unfocused and muddled, a shallow adaptation of the novel it is based on. Points go to the gorgeous cinematography, though." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 43 out of 100, based on 34 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".Critics suggested that DiCaprio's fame post-Titanic might have contributed to the financial success of this film, which came out less than three years after the James Cameron blockbuster. CNN's Paul Clinton said "Leonardo DiCaprio's main fan base of screaming adolescent girls won't be disappointed with The Beach. The majority of the film displays the titanic-sized young heartthrob sans his shirt in this story about the pseudo-angst and alienation of a young man from the United States escaping civilization and his computer-obsessed generation." He agreed with most others that The Beach was "nothing to write home about". DiCaprio was nominated for a Razzie Award for Worst Actor for his work on the film.

Controversies
Damage to filming location
Controversy arose during the making of the film due to 20th Century Fox's bulldozing and landscaping of the natural beach setting of Ko Phi Phi Le to make it more "paradise-like". The production altered some sand dunes and cleared some coconut trees and grass to widen the beach. Fox set aside a fund to reconstruct and return the beach to its natural state; however, lawsuits were filed by environmentalists who believed the damage to the ecosystem was permanent and restoration attempts had failed.  Following shooting of the film, there was a clear flat area at one end of the beach that was created artificially with an odd layout of trees which was never rectified, and the entire area remained damaged from the original state until the tsunami of 2004.The lawsuits dragged on for years. In 2006, Thailand's Supreme Court upheld an appellate court ruling that the filming had harmed the environment and ordered that damage assessments be made. Defendants in the case included 20th Century Fox and some Thai government officials.The large increase in tourist traffic to the beach as a result of the film resulted in environmental damage to the bay and the nearby coral reefs, prompting Thai authorities to close the beach in 2018.The restoration period for the bay was lengthened due to travel restrictions during the COVID pandemic. Blacktip sharks began breeding there again. In 2022, the bay reopened to tourists, under strict protocols of no boats, no swimming and no more than a one hour visit per person for a limited number of visitors at a time.

Portrayal of Thailand
After the film premiered in Thailand in 2000, some Thai politicians were upset at the way Thailand was depicted in the film and called for it to be banned. The depiction of the drug culture was said to give Thailand a bad image and having a statue of Buddha in a bar was cited as "blasphemous".

Possible spin-off
In a 2019 interview with The Independent, Danny Boyle revealed that a television series based on his film has been written by Amy Seimetz. The proposed series is set to take place before the events from the 1996 novel, although it will be updated to occur 20 years later, in 2016.

See also
Phi Phi Islands
Passage 9:
Return of the Kung Fu Dragon
Return of the Kung Fu Dragon (Chinese: 砲傌俥; Mandarin:  Ju ma pao) is a 1976 Taiwanese film directed by Chick Lim Yu.

Plot summary
On the idyllic phoenix island in the south china sea a golden city becomes the birthplace to a new form of Kung Fu. Soon an evil tyrant threatens the peace and harmony of once such a proud city. A generation passes and a brave prince, a fearless princess and a foolish dwarf with the powers of invisibility team up to return a kingdom to its people as they wrest it from the hands of the evil tyrant.

Cast
Soundtrack
Passage 10:
Whihala Beach County Park
Whihala Beach County Park is a park in Whiting, Indiana, United States. It is a public beach with life guards. The beach was previously named Whiting Beach.Whihala Beach is named after the nearby cities of Whiting and Hammond and Lake County Parks Department.
Passage 11:
Sylvan Beach Union Chapel
Sylvan Beach Union Chapel is a historic interdenominational church building located at Sylvan Beach in Oneida County, New York.  It opened on July 3, 1887, and worship services have been held there every summer since then.  The film The Sterile Cuckoo starring Liza Minnelli was shot in part at the church.It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2009.
Passage 12:
Bang Bon District
Bang Bon (Thai: บางบอน, pronounced [bāːŋ bɔ̄ːn]) is one of the 50 districts (khet) of Bangkok, Thailand. Its neighbours, clockwise from north, are Bang Khae, Phasi Charoen, Chom Thong, and Bang Khun Thian districts of Bangkok, Mueang Samut Sakhon district and Krathum Baen district of Samut Sakhon province, and Nong Khaem district of Bangkok.

History
Formerly Bang Bon was a tambon of amphoe Bang Khun Thian in Thonburi Province, prior to the merger of Thonburi and Phra Nakhon into a single province, after which it was a sub-district of Bang Khun Thian District.
On 14 October 1997, Bang Bon was split from Bang Khun Thian and established as a new district. The district office opened on 6 March 1998, the last of Bangkok's 50 districts to open, first established temporarily at the Thepyada Arak Fresh Market building, but later moved to a permanent location on Ekkachai Road.

Administration
The district has four sub-districts (khwaeng).

The missing number 1 is the sub-district that was dissolved and divided into four current sub-districts.

Economy
Agriculture is an important part of the area economy. Among Bang Bon's famous products are Nam Doc Mai mangos, coconuts, orchids, and lotus.

Places
Wat Bang Bon
7th Cycle Birthday Anniversary Park, Bang Bon, otherwise known as 9 Hills Park
Sarasas Witaed Bangbon School
Suksanareewittaya School, formerly and still colloquially known as Suksanari 2 School (shared with Samut Sakhon province)

Notable people
Chalerm Yubamrung – politician
Passage 13:
John Anderson Lodge
The John Anderson Lodge was an historic home built around 1886 at 71 Orchard Lane in Ormond Beach, Florida, United States. It was built for Ormond Beach promoter John Anderson (1853–1911), who was one of the first owners of the Ormond Hotel. The lodge was originally used by employees of the hotel and to host parties. In its later years it became a single family residence. The lodge was built on pilings and featured vertical palm tree wall construction.

National Register of Historic Places
The John Anderson Lodge was added onto the National Register of Historic Places on September 6, 1989.

State of Disrepair
By 2017, the structure was in a bad state of disrepair as termites infested much of the building's wood, the original floors were missing in much of the building, and there were several holes in the walls and roof that were allowing water to continue to damage the interior. The most significant damage was related to the pilings which sank and jeopardized the structure's stability. To fix the pilings the structure would have had to be lifted up and suspended in the air during repairs. It was determined that the weakened walls and roof were not strong enough and would have most likely crumbled apart.In October 2018, a non-destructive inspection of the foundation by EMS Forensic Associates, LLC. determined that the structure was most likely beyond economic repair.

Demolition
On August 6, 2019, the City of Ormond Beach, Florida issued Demolition Permit number 19-00005662. The John Anderson Lodge was demolished in September 2019.

Delisting from the National Register of Historic Places
In July 2022, a petition to delist the John Anderson Lodge from the National Register of Historic Places was sent to the Florida Department of Historic Resources.
Passage 14:
Dillon Beach, California
Dillon Beach is a census-designated place (CDP) in Marin County, California, United States. It is located 3.25 miles (5.2 km) west of Tomales, at an elevation of 89 ft (27 m). The population was 246 at the 2020 census. Dillon Beach was named after the founder, George Dillon, who settled there in 1858. The area includes a public access beach, as well as a private beach resort, the only private beach in California.

Geography
Dillon Beach is located at Bodega Bay (near the mouth of Tomales Bay), at 38°15′03″N 122°57′55″W.The Estero de San Antonio State Marine Recreational Management Area is a marine protected area located 1.5 miles (2.4 km) north of Dillon Beach. Like an underwater park, this marine protected area helps conserve ocean wildlife and marine ecosystems.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 2.98 sq mi (7.7 km2), all of it land.

History
The Coast Miwok people had a presence in the area around Dillon Beach long before Europeans arrived in the Americas. It is thought that a few of their villages lay within the greater Dillon Beach area, including one around the feature known locally as the Sand Point.
In the 1850s, local historical figure Tom Wood operated in the area, employing the natives in harvesting of grain to be milled nearby. He would attempt to ensure that they were not taken advantage of by the British, French, or American traders that would ply the coast. Hides and tallow were traded for various manufactured goods, among them whiskey. Despite Wood's efforts, many of them would fall victim to alcoholism, and while a few claim descent from the local Coast Miwoks, no full-blooded members live today. Tom's Point, immediately south of Dillon Beach on the eastern shore of the bay, is named for Tom Wood, and Wood resided there with the small village he ingratiated himself into.
Irishman George Dillon and wife Mathilda arrived at what is now Dillon Beach from the eastern U.S. in 1868. When his friends and family showed interest in the area, he thought to capitalize on it; in 1888, he built an 11 bedroom hotel, restaurant, and general store. This is the Dillon Beach Resort in operation today. Visitors would explore the area on their way up the coast toward the redwood forests, strolling the beach, fishing, or digging clams from the nearby clam bars of Tomales Bay.
In 1903, Dillon sold out to John Keegan with the agreement that the beach would always be named Dillon Beach. Keegan also built cottages, one of which still stands along the road to the beach. Keegan ran a stagecoach from Dillon Beach to Tomales where it met the train.
Keegan sold the holdings to the California Eucalyptus Plantation Company in 1911. They planted the area with eucalyptus trees, a few of which still stand, but continued to operate the resort, and redoubled these efforts as the eucalyptus crop proved to warp easily and was effectively worthless. Under the subsidiary of the Dillon Beach Company, they operated the resort, ferried guests from the train in Tomales, ran a charter boat, and created Portola Beach, a subdivision along Cliff Street. Try as they might, their Dillon Beach operations were failing.
When regular visitors and Woodland ranchers Sylvester and Carrie Lawson offered to lease the property, the California Eucalyptus Plantation Company promptly agreed. Different portions of the business and land were leased or purchased by the Lawson family, and by 1942 Dillon Beach was firmly in Lawson hands. Sylvester and Carrie's older son, Howard, and his wife, Winifred, owned and ran the resort, while the younger son, Walter, and his wife, Nita, ran the southern side of the property, operating it as a ranch and opening Lawsons Landing on it. The Landing is operated by Walter's descendants to this day as a campground with a store and boating access to Tomales Bay.
During World War II, fears of a Japanese invasion of the West Coast were considered well founded, especially along sparsely populated Marin and Sonoma counties, where enemy forces could conceivably make landfall and prepare for a larger invasion of San Francisco Bay. The military commandeered many cottages and monitored the water from outposts on the surrounding hills supported by ground patrols. The sand dunes on the Lawsons Landing property were also a site for rifle and grenade practice, and the Lawson family recalls at least one instance of an armored vehicle's .50 caliber machine gun being fired around their cows, resulting in a tense conversation between soldiers and ranchers. One soldier reportedly sighted a Japanese submarine off the beach, prompting the garrison to scramble to nearby Marshall to requisition its civilian fishing boats for use in a counterattack, several of which were run by their respective owners. It took several hours to coordinate the operation, and once the soldiers finally arrived at the area of the supposed sighting, armed only with small arms, the submarine had departed, if it had been there at all.
The College of the Pacific operated from 1933 until some time in the 1980s. It stood between Portola Beach and Lawsons Landing, offering a hands-on experience for a small number of marine biology students. The concrete foundation is all that remains today, hinting at what was there before to passersby today.
During the 1960s, Oceana Marin was developed north of town by John Keegan's grandson, James Keegan of Wells Fargo Bank and Henry Trione of Sonoma County Mortgage. Fancy modern coastal houses were built on the hillsides overlooking the quaint town of small cottages, giving it a unique appeal.
The resort, day use beach, and restaurant were sold to Fred Cline in 1990 by the Lawsons. He would sell in 2018 to the group of investors owning it today.

Dillon Beach Resort
Between 2001 and 2018, Dillon Beach Resort was owned and operated by Fred and Nancy Cline of Sonoma Valley, California.  In April 2018, Mike Goebel purchased the resort.
It is one of the few beaches with private (for-fee) access in northern California. 
In California, public access is permitted below the high tide line. The horrible lines of traffic in Dillon Beach are caused by people waiting for entry into the parking lot of Dillon Beach Resort's beach lot. On hot holidays the line can extend all the way up to Elephant Rocks, almost a mile away.

Demographics
2010
At the 2010 census, Dillon Beach had a population of 283. The population density was 94.8 inhabitants per square mile (36.6/km2). The racial makeup of Dillon Beach was 266 (94.0%) White, 3 (1.1%) Native American, 4 (1.4%) Asian, and 10 (3.5%) from two or more races.  Hispanic or Latino of any race were 9 people (3.2%).The census reported that 100% of the population lived in households.
There were 147 households, 20 (13.6%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 79 (53.7%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 6 (4.1%) had a female householder with no husband present, 2 (1.4%) had a male householder with no wife present.  There were 6 (4.1%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 3 (2.0%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 48 households (32.7%) were one person and 26 (17.7%) had someone living alone who was 65 or older. The average household size was 1.93.  There were 87 families (59.2% of households); the average family size was 2.37.
The age distribution was 28 people (9.9%) under the age of 18, 7 people (2.5%) aged 18 to 24, 44 people (15.5%) aged 25 to 44, 127 people (44.9%) aged 45 to 64, and 77 people (27.2%) who were 65 or older.  The median age was 57.4 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.2 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 94.7 males.
There were 440 housing units at an average density of 147.5 per square mile, of the occupied units 125 (85.0%) were owner-occupied and 22 (15.0%) were rented. The homeowner vacancy rate was 5.3%; the rental vacancy rate was 59.3%. 84.5% of the population lived in owner-occupied housing units and 15.5% lived in rental housing units.

2000
At the 2000 census, there were 319 people, 155 households, and 103 families in the CDP.  The population density was 107/sq mi (41.5/km2).  There were 415 housing units at an average density of 140/sq mi (54/km2).  The racial makeup of the CDP in 2010 was 90.8% non-Hispanic White, 1.1% Native American, 1.4% Asian, and 3.5% from two or more races. 3.2% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
Of the 155 households 17.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.4% were married couples living together, 4.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.5% were non-families. 27.7% of households were one person and 10.3% were one person aged 65 or older.  The average household size was 2.06 and the average family size was 2.47.
The age distribution was 14.4% under the age of 18, 1.3% from 18 to 24, 18.8% from 25 to 44, 43.6% from 45 to 64, and 21.9% 65 or older.  The median age was 52 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.7 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.0 males.
The median household income was $47,679 and the median family income  was $52,000. Males had a median income of $40,714 versus $37,083 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $39,475.  None of the families and 1.3% of the population were living below the poverty line, including no under-eighteens and none of those over 64.