Passage 1:
Ricky Wilde
Ricky Wilde (born Richard James Reginald Steven Smith, 6 November 1961, sometimes credited as Ricki Wilde) is a British songwriter, musician, and record producer. He is the younger brother of singer Kim Wilde (the two are "Irish twins", having been born slightly less than one year apart); their father is singer-actor Marty Wilde.

Career
At the age of eleven, Wilde was signed by record producer Jonathan King to King's UK Records label, and released his first single in November 1972, called "I Am an Astronaut". King became his mentor and had great faith in Wilde and groomed him for stardom as the teenybopper star of 1973. The children's magazine Look-in featured Wilde and Donny Osmond on the cover in June 1973 with the headline "Is Ricky Wilde the new Donny?". Subsequent singles were "Do It Again, a Little Bit Slower", "I Wanna Go to a Disco" and "Teen Wave".  However, the singles were not successful in the UK, although he was featured in youth magazines at the time and appeared with his father alongside eleven years old pop rival Darren Burn in BBC Television's Man Alive documentary film Twinkle Twinkle Little Star, made in July 1973.  He had some hits in Scandinavia and Spain at the time.
Recordings of new material in 1980 led to the 'discovery' of his sister Kim. Wilde's new role was that of producer and co-writer, a role he has fulfilled up until now. By his own admission, he was happy to be more in the background as of that moment.  After Kim Wilde paused her career in pop music, Ricky Wilde continued to work in the music industry. In 2005 he was one of the initiators of the band, Sonic Hub, and of the record label Sonic Hub Records.
He co-directed the film Shoot The DJ, released in 2010.
"I Am an Astronaut" was covered by Snow Patrol for the Save the Children compilation album, Colours Are Brighter; it also featured as a B-side to their single "Open Your Eyes". It was translated into Swedish, and recorded by nine-year-old Linus Wahlgren in 1985. The Swedish version was later covered by Wahlgren's nephew Benjamin Ingrosso in 2007, also at nine years of age.  Ricky started a podcast with famous blogger Lee Bennett and Eastenders soap star Jake Wood called 'Unsung Heroes' talking to song writers and producers behind the scenes in the music industry.

Influences
Wilde has named Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark (OMD) as "heroes" and a key source of inspiration. Other influences have included Ultravox, John Foxx, Gary Numan, Skids, Sex Pistols, the Clash, Kraftwerk and the Stranglers.
Passage 2:
Rendezvous at Big Gulch (Terror in the Neighborhood)
"Rendezvous at Big Gulch (Terror in the Neighborhood)" is the third episode produced (but fifth episode broadcast) of the short-lived TV series Police Squad!. The episode was directed by Reza Badiyi and written by Nancy Steen and Neil Thompson. As usual, the episode was produced by Robert K. Weiss.
The episode refers to Mommie Dearest (released by Paramount Pictures, whose television division produced Police Squad!), where a Joan Crawford lookalike pays off the mob at the "Mommie Dearest Day Care Center".Dutch Genderson is a clear spoof on the James Bond character Ernst Stavro Blofeld.  He is introduced sitting in a chair stroking a cat, and his face is not initially revealed. Even his bending low upon his announcement, "When I'm through with him, he'll be dead!" is meant as a (more subtle) joke, since up to You Only Live Twice Blofeld's face is never seen in the movies.

Plot
Two gangsters, later revealed as Rocky and Leo, collect protection money from several local shops. A ballet teacher, Jill, cannot pay because of bad business and is beaten. Frank Drebin, the detective, interviews the woman but she seems reluctant to cooperate, saying she did not get a good look.
Frank and Ed discover the gangsters are working all across the country. Wanting to catch them in the act, Frank opens up a locksmith store along with fellow detective Norberg (a store that actually says on the window "A.N. Abandoned Locksmith Shop.").
Rocky and Leo's offer of protection is turned down. They assault the store with machine guns, which is not noticed until they toss in a rock with a note. Frank drives the rock (backwards) to the lab. Analysis of the note and the rock reveals nothing.
Rocky and Leo try to intimidate the two men again, but are beaten and left dazed on the street. The entire neighborhood sees this and cheers.
After Frank's victory, Leo and Rocky are seen talking with their boss Dutch Genderson, who tells them that when he's through with Frank, Frank will be dead.

Act II: Gesundheit
When Norberg has another delivery, a beautiful woman called Stella comes into the shop. She is trying to seduce Frank; she tells Frank she wants her key duplicated 50 times and that Frank can keep the 50th key himself (the other 49 are intended for the Chicago Bears). Two weeks later, when Frank tries to open the door with his key, Stella starts shooting through the door. Frank, however, isn't behind the door, so when he comes in, he grabs Stella. The phone rings, and Stella is made to pick it up. The person calling is Dutch Genderson, providing Frank the opportunity to set up a trap for Dutch. After the call, Frank detains Stella on suspicion of attempting murder. Frank consults Johnny the Snitch, his go-to source of information, before meeting Dutch. Frank learns from Johnny about Dutch's unhappy upbringing. Dutch has only ever known the criminal underworld. Frank then asks Johnny for concrete evidence against Dutch. Johnny gives Frank some photostats that make Dutch look pretty dirty. When Frank arrives at Dutch's office, Dutch attempts to shoot Frank, but before he has a chance, Frank shows him the photostat that Johnny gave him. Instead of trying to arrest Dutch, Frank tries to become part of his organization. Dutch tells Frank to kill the old tailor as his first assignment. When going to the tailor's store, Leo and Rocky grab Frank and tell him that there has been a change of plans: they're hitting a dance teacher. When Frank comes in the other policemen have just left and Jill blows Frank's cover by calling him lieutenant. A big fight starts inside the ballet school. Frank wins the fight and tells Jill to call Police Squad.

Recurring jokes
Tonight's special guest star: Florence Henderson, gunned down while she was singing in the kitchen, surrounded by bottles of vegetable oil (she was a commercial spokesperson for Wesson Oil at the time). Henderson later made a cameo appearance in Naked Gun 33+1⁄3: The Final Insult, as herself nominated for an Oscar.
Next week's experiment: Bring those magazines you found under your father's bed.
Johnny's next customer: A fireman wanting to know the best way to extinguish a furniture warehouse fire.
Freeze frame gag: When Ed pours Frank some coffee, the episode ends and the coffee spills all over the place.
Passage 3:
Tiger reserves of India
The tiger reserves of India were set up in 1973 and are governed under Project Tiger, which is administrated by the National Tiger Conservation Authority, Government of India. Tiger reserves were designated in 50 protected areas until 2018. 
In 2022, the 53rd tiger reserve was declared in Ranipur Wildlife Sanctuary, Uttar Pradesh, and the State's third tiger reserve.India is home to 80 percent of tigers in the world. In 2006, India estimated that there were 1,411 tigers which doubled to 3167 in 2022.The increase in population of tigers in India played a big role in driving up global populations as well; the number of wild tigers globally rose from 3,159 in 2010 to 3,890 in 2016 according to World Wildlife Fund and Global Tiger Forum.

Goal
State forestry departments operate 71,027.1 km2 (27,423.7 sq mi) of declared reserves "to ensure maintenance of viable populations of the conservation dependent Bengal tigers in India". The tigers are maintained for their scientific, economic, aesthetic, cultural and ecological values and to preserve for all time areas of biological importance as a national heritage for the benefit, educational purposes."

Population assessment
By the year 2018, according to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, there were estimated only 2,967 tigers in existence in India. The 2010 National Tiger Assessment estimated the total population of tigers in India at 1,706.  As per Ministry of Environment and Forests, the tiger population in India stood at 2,226 in 2014 with an increase of 30.5% since the 2010 estimate. This exhaustive study indicated that better protected tiger source sites, especially tiger reserves, have maintained viable populations. However, the area occupied by tigers outside protected areas has decreased considerably. This demonstrates the need for corridors in order for tigers to move between source sites. The existing tiger reserves represent around one-third of India's high density forest area. More tigers were killed in the first quarter of 2016 than in the entire previous year. This significant revelation comes at a time when the tiger census numbers are disputed by the scientific community.
In 2010–11, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in partnership with the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) undertook an independent management effectiveness evaluation (MEE) of the 53 tiger reserves in the country. The reserves were categorized into four major categories. Madhya pradesh has the highest number of tigers(526) in the age group of 1.5 years with more than 408 big cats. Other states with significant populations include Karnataka (524), Uttarakhand (442),  Tamil Nadu (229), Maharashtra (190), Assam (167), Kerala (136) and Uttar Pradesh (117).

List of tiger reserves
Note that Amangarh Tiger Reserve in Uttar Pradesh is a buffer zone of Jim Corbett National Park, and may not be regarded as a separate tiger reserve. It has a buffer zone of 80.6 km2 (31.1 sq mi) but no core area of critical tiger habitat.

Future
In addition to existing reserves, the in-principle approval has been accorded by the National Tiger Conservation Authority for the creation of two new tiger reserves, namely Ratapani Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh, Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in Arunachal Pradesh and Kaimur Wildlife Sanctuary in Bihar. Final approval has been accorded to Kudremukh National Park to be declared as a tiger reserve. The State Governments have been advised to send proposals for declaring the following areas as tiger reserves: Suhelva Sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh, Mhadei Sanctuary in Goa, Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in Arunachal Pradesh and Cauvery-MM Hills in Karnataka.
Passage 4:
The Goddess of Sagebrush Gulch
The Goddess of Sagebrush Gulch is a 1912 American short silent Western film directed by D. W. Griffith and starring Blanche Sweet.

Cast
See also
D. W. Griffith filmography
Blanche Sweet filmography
Passage 5:
Wild Women
Wild Women may refer to:

Wild Women (1918 film), an American comedy western film
Wild Women (1951 film), an American adventure film directed by Norman Dawn
Wild Women (1970 film), an American television western film
Wild Women (song), a single by Michael Learns to Rock

See also
Wild Women: Gentle Beasts, a 2015 feature documentary
Passage 6:
Sharks' Treasure
Sharks' Treasure is a 1975 American adventure film written, produced and directed by Cornel Wilde and starring Cornel Wilde and Yaphet Kotto.

Plot
Eccentric charter skipper Jim Carnahan (Cornel Wilde) and his team of hard-luck dreamers battle sharks, bandits and their own greed to recover sunken treasure off the coast of Honduras.

Cast
Cornel Wilde as Jim Carnahan
Yaphet Kotto as Ben Flynn
John Neilson as Ron
Cliff Osmond as Lobo
David Canary as Larry
David Gilliam as Juanito

Production
Wilde says he came up with the idea for the film in 1969 but could not raise the finance until Jaws. "I would rather have had the field to ourselves, without Jaws," he said.He called the film "a very down to earth treasure hunting story of today... It shows guys who get hooked on to a real find, hock everything they have, give up jobs... The characters and incidents are based on a lot of true accounts."Much of the film was shot near Bonaire in the Dutch Antilles."It was the most dangerous picture I've ever worked on," said Wilde. "Working 70 feet underwater, surrounded by sharks, you're pressured by all sorts of possible hazards... but I was much more excited than I was afraid."

Reception
The Los Angeles Times called the film "crude, violent, energetic and usual."After seven weeks of release in three major markets in the United States, including California and Florida, the film had grossed $2 million.

"Money, Money"
The opening theme song "Money, Money" was written by Wilde (under the pseudonym Jefferson Pascal) and sung by British musician and voice of the much-loved children's character Postman Pat, Ken Barrie.
Passage 7:
Growing Up American
Growing Up American: How Vietnamese Children Adapt to Life in the United States, by Min Zhou and Carl L. Bankston III is one of the most influential books on the Vietnamese American experience. Published in 1998 by the Russell Sage Foundation, it is widely used in college classes on international migration, contemporary American history, and Asian Studies. The book emphasizes the role of Vietnamese communities in promoting the adaptation of Vietnamese American young people. 
One of the unique characteristics of the book is its combination of a general history of the growth and nature of Vietnamese American communities around the United States with an in-depth study of one specific Vietnamese community, on the eastern edge of New Orleans, Louisiana.

Organization of the book
Chapter 1 traces the history of Vietnamese settlement in the United States, giving special attention to how the process of refugee resettlement and popular opinions of the American public have influenced Vietnamese American children. Chapter 2 gives a description of the demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of the U.S. Vietnamese population and describes the social and economic challenges facing the Vietnamese. Chapter 3 offers examples of how families and surrounding ethnic communities can serve as sources of social capital for young people. Chapter 4 discusses the patterns of social and kinship relations in Vietnamese ethnic communities. Here, Zhou and Bankston develop their theory that ethnic social relations can serve as a form of social capital for young people growing up in immigrant communities. Chapter 5 examines how Vietnamese language abilities promote the adaptation of young Vietnamese to American society by connecting them to the supports of their families and communities. Chapter 6 considers Vietnamese American adaptation to American schools and argues that generally high levels of school performance are products of tightly integrated ethnic communities. Chapter 7 examines bicultural conflict and gender role issues faced by Vietnamese growing up in the United States. Chapter 8 discusses peer group associations and problems of juvenile delinquency. It provides evidence that young people who follow delinquent patterns tend to be those who assimilate to the youth culture of Vietnamese and other subgroups, rather than remain bound within their ethnic communities. Chapter 9 gives a general summary and offers conclusions of relevance to the study of immigrant and minority groups in the United States.

Critical reception
Growing Up American has received widespread critical praise. Writing in the journal Social Forces, reviewer Jiannbin Shiao described the analysis of delinquency in the Vietnamese community as “contestable but refreshingly bold” and described it as “a fine contribution to the sociology of education, social stratification, social demography, Asian American Studies, and, one hopes, also U.S. urban policy.” In the International Migration Review, Kimberly Goyette praised the book for “…elaborat[ing] a detailed and elegant framework for conceptualizing the relationship between children and their various environments and also the relationship between these environments.” Kelly Chong, reviewing the book for the American Journal of Sociology, observed “this comprehensive investigation of the adaptation process of second generation Vietnamese in the United States fills an important gap in the study of contemporary “new” immigrants and the second generation assimilation experience.”
In addition to the praise, though, reviewers have also had some reservations. In particular, critics have questioned the generalizability of the books findings to other ethnic groups and they have suggested the book may be too optimistic in its account of the future of young Vietnamese Americans. Critics of more radical orientations have often objected the authors’ acceptance of American society and the focus on adapting to that society. For example, Karin Aguilar-San Juan, in the book Little Saigons: Staying Vietnamese in America, accuses Zhou and Bankston of ignoring the processes of racialization and systemic racism in encouraging Asian immigrant achievement while frustrating black American achievement.

Awards
1999 Thomas and Znaniecki Award, Outstanding Book in International Migration, American Sociological Association
2000 Distinguished Book Award, Mid-South Sociological Association

See also
Asian American
Diaspora studies
List of U.S. cities with large Vietnamese American populations
List of Vietnamese Americans
Little Saigon
Overseas Vietnamese
Refugees
Vietnamese people

External links
Article title
Article title
http://tulane.edu/liberal-arts/sociology/carlbankston.cfm
http://www.eric.ed.gov/PDFS/ED439180.pdf
http://blogs.bauer.uh.edu/vietDiaspora/contributors-5/
Passage 8:
The Gospel Bill Show
The Gospel Bill Show is a Christian-values based television show that was produced by Willie George Ministries from June 4, 1981 to May 12, 1993.  (Later episodes were titled as Adventures in Dry Gulch but featured the same characters and premise.)
During its main run it was broadcast on the CBN and TBN networks.  It is currently seen in syndication on the Daystar and Smile of a Child networks, and on other small independent Christian television stations.
It was also broadcast on the Australian Christian Channel in Australia.

Characters
Gospel Bill (Willie George) – the sheriff of Dry Gulch. Bill serves both as representative of the law and as moral guidance counselor to the citizens of Dry Gulch.
Nicodemus (Ken Blount) – deputy and sidekick of Gospel Bill, also the foreman at a local ranch. Nicodemus was once a drunk of ill-repute who was sobered up by Bill and reaffirmed as a born-again Christian. Nicodemus is easily swayed by various shysters, but Gospel Bill serves as his moral compass when temptations arise.
Miss Lana (Lana Osborn) – runs the town's general store, which doubles as a telegraph office. She serves as the town's maternal figure, although in the series she is not known to have any husband or children.
Elmer Barnes (Jeff Merrill) – a citizen of Dry Gulch who is friends with the main characters. He is portrayed as somewhat mentally challenged and is often confused on Biblical matters. He has two pet worms, Inky and Dinky (which he often carries on his person, though they are largely unseen characters) and his primary concern is "goin' fishin'".
Theodore Ulysses (T. U.) Tutwater (Daine Demaree) – the mayor of Dry Gulch as well as the president of the Dry Gulch Bank and Trust. He represented secular interests (such as pride and greed) and usually mocked Gospel Bill's religious views, though he would not engage in illegal acts. In later episodes, Demaree (who moved to California to pastor a church) was replaced by John Witty and the character's name was changed to T. W. Tutwater.
Luther Bedlow (also played by Willie George, but credited as "himself") – the stock villain of the show. He usually attempts to engage in criminal activity but is always foiled by Gospel Bill.
Orville Cornpone (Rodney Lynch) – served in early episodes as Bedlow's dim-witted henchman who would usually cause Bedlow to be unsuccessful in his criminal activities. Cornpone later became a Christian (courtesy of Gospel Bill) and thereafter played a morally upstanding character (though Bedlow would attempt to recruit him back to villainy).
Wichita Slim (Kenneth Copeland) – a tough as nails, but gentlemanly U.S. Marshall who comes through town and helps with the most difficult problems they occasionally face.
Miss Trudi Lou (Trudi Blount) – a minor character to whom Nicodemus often refers as the woman he hopes to woo someday. (Trudi Blount is Ken Blount's real life wife.)
Ferman Farnsworth (also played by Willie George; but often credited as "himself") – a minor character (though often referenced) who owns the ranch where Nicodemus works.
Barkamaeus (Keith Holey) – an anthropomorphic human-sized talking dog who wore a cowboy hat and vest. He only appeared in early episodes of the show.Before the Elmer Barnes character was introduced, Jeff Merrill appeared on early episodes of the show as a geological surveyor, who advised Luther Bedlow of gold deposits to be found underneath Dry Gulch.
John Witty and Rodney Lynch also appeared as the town doctor in several episodes.

Premise
The Gospel Bill Show was set in the fictional town of Dry Gulch, portrayed as being in the Old West. However, there were many anachronistic references to the present day, such as television and answering machine, which did not exist back when the show was supposed to be set. Dry Gulch was so named because the citizens voted it as a "dry" city (i.e., one which prohibited alcohol sales).

Format
The show would center around a topic, where Gospel Bill would be heavily involved in providing moral guidance to one of the citizens (usually Nicodemus or Elmer Barnes) and/or preventing catastrophe (mainly stopping Luther Bedlow's criminal activities).

Oogene and Jeannie Mae segments
A typical episode would be interrupted several times by puppet segments depicting Biblical stories as well as the adventures of Oogene, a young boy who squabbles with his sister Jeannie Mae (but the fights are always resolved by a moral lesson) and narrates "Oogene at the Zoo", in which Oogene studies an animal and relates its role to a lesson from the Bible ("Oogene at the Farm" replaced the "Oogene at the Zoo" segment in some later episodes). Segments with Oogene and Jeannie tend to be unique, but the zoo and farm field pieces are repeated frequently throughout the series as filler for the show. Willie George voiced the majority of the various puppet skits, most notably Oogene and his sister Jeannie Mae.

Music video and lesson
The episode would also feature a Christian song and music video (usually by Ken Blount) towards the end of the show. Sometimes he would appear in character as Nicodemus, but often he will appear as himself, singing about a dramatic story which is acted out by others. Some of the music videos not contributed by Blount included the songs, "We've Got the Power" by long-time KCM worship leader Len Mink and "It's God" by Kellie Copeland Swisher (daughter of Kenneth Copeland), as well as "A Merry Heart" where Blount is joined by unnamed puppets wearing blue and orange-striped shirts. An unknown band was occasionally seen opposite Blount in some later videos.
At the end of most shows, Gospel Bill reappeared with props in hand to spell out a lesson to the viewer, generally relating to the main plot of the episode. He would often use the props as a visual aid to demonstrate a particular concept he is emphasizing. In some later episodes, Nicodemus will give the lesson instead of Gospel Bill.

Adventures in Dry Gulch
Later episodes of the show were titled as "Adventures in Dry Gulch" rather than "The Gospel Bill Show", many of which did not feature Willie George at all. Instead, Nicodemus would be in charge while Gospel Bill is "out of town" on some unspecified task.

DVD availability
The series is available for DVD purchase through George's church website. Episodes included in the collection include;

God Gives Back - Ken Blount: In the Name of Jesus -At the threat of losing her store, Miss Lana chooses to obey God with the tithe and trust Him to provide.
There's Still Hope - Ken Blount: Know You're a Christian -When Gospel Bill brings a desperate bank robber to justice, Miss Lana believes the robber can be saved when no one else does.
Power of Agreement - At the Zoo with Oogene: Ostrich - Ken Blount: You Are My Inspiration -A bizarre accident leaves Gospel Bill with amnesia. Nicodemus and Miss Lana respond with the prayer of agreement.
He Sent His Word and Healed Them - Ken Blount: All Hail King Jesus -Gospel Bill speaks God's Word when a local family is threatened with a contagious disease.
Don't Trust in Riches - Ken Blount: Worship and Adore Thee -Eager to make a profit, Tutwater loses all of his money in a bad mining investment.
The Worst Temptation -In an effort to make Gospel Bill leave Dry Gulch, Luther Bedlow and Cornpone try to lure him away with temptations.
To Cheat or Not, Part 1 -Luther Bedlow uses Cornpone as a pawn in the local sheriff's election, and they buy votes with bribes.
To Cheat or Not, Part 2 - Ken Blount: You Are My Inspiration -After an unfair election, Gospel Bill must help the new sheriff deal with outlaws and save the day.
All Things Through Christ - Len Mink: We've Got The Power -Gospel Bill must find a way to reveal a mysterious thief's identity and catch him in the act.
Praise God When Trouble Comes -Gospel Bill experiences trouble at every turn and has to decide whether he will complain or praise God.
To Tell the Truth - Ken Blount: Nothing But the Blood -Elmer takes dating advice from Nicodemus, but he stretches the truth in order to make a good impression.
Receiving by Faith - Ken Blount: You Are My Inspiration -When two outlaws injure Gospel Bill, his friends must pray and stand in faith for his healing.
It Pays to Work -Elmer needs money, but he fails to display a good work ethic when Miss Lana gives him a job.
The New Birth -Gospel Bill recounts his lawless days before Christ to show Elmer that Jesus can change anyone.
The Reward of Stinginess -Tutwater misses out on God's blessing when he allows a stingy spirit to keep him from giving at church.
The Power of the Tongue -Nicodemus activates the power of God's Word for healing, and Gospel Bill uses the Word to help him outsmart a gunman.
Treasures in Heaven -Luther Bedlow and Cornpone hear of a treasure, so they kidnap Nicodemus in an effort to find it.
If God Be for Us -When Gospel Bill heads out of town, Nicodemus is left in charge and learns to conquer his fears.
Agreement Equals Power -Gospel Bill and Nicodemus believe God for the money Nic needs in order to save his mother's farm.
Overcoming Faith -Gospel Bill, Nicodemus, Miss Lana, and Elmer all use their faith in order to overcome obstacles in their way.
Control Your Thoughts - At the Zoo with Oogene: Koala Bear - Ken Blount: Don't Let the Devil Steal Your Joy -Nicodemus and Elmer nearly come to blows when Elmer tries to court Miss Trudi Lou.
Babies Make Mistakes -After falling back into an old habit, a new Christian learns what it means to persevere in spite of mistakes.
Elmer Finds His Gift -When faced with growing debts and no job, Elmer discovers his true gift.
There's No Such Thing As Monsters -Gospel Bill has to set Tutwater straight about a monster story and find the prankster responsible.
Never Give Up -Fed up with how hard Farnsworth is working him, Nicodemus decides to quit his job.
Deadly Disobedience - At the Zoo with Oogene: Ostrich - Ken Blount feat. Unnamed Puppets: A Merry Heart -A young boy's life is in jeopardy when he disobeys his mother and falls into a mine shaft.
Nic and the Faith Saddle -Nicodemus needs a new saddle for a cowboy contest, so Gospel Bill encourages him to believe God for it.
Rejoice in the Lord -When everything goes wrong with his day, Nicodemus has to choose whether or not he will praise God.
Angels Watching over Me -In dealing with his fear of the unknown, Elmer finds out that angels are watching over him.
Put Off Temptation -Luther Bedlow and Tutwater join forces and try to bribe Gospel Bill so he will influence the townspeople.
The Root of Bitterness -Miss Lana is tempted to become bitter when Tutwater accuses her of selling shoddy merchandise.
Words of Healing -Gospel Bill speaks words of healing on behalf of his Uncle Pete, but Elmer brings sickness upon himself with a negative confession.
How to Make Friends - At the Zoo with Oogene: Elephant - Ken Blount: J-E-S-U-S
Freed from Sin - At the Zoo with Oogene: Orangutan - Ken Blount: In the Name of Jesus
The Jealous Mistake - At the Zoo with Oogene: Ostrich - Ken Blount: All Hail King Jesus
The Spirit of Giving - At the Zoo with Oogene: Red Kangaroo - Ken Blount: Forget All Those Things
The Love of Money - At the Zoo with Oogene: Bengal Tiger - Ken Blount: Joy, Joy, Joy
The Christmas That Almost Wasn't - At the Zoo with Oogene: Grizzly Bear - Ken Blount: Hark! The Herald Angels Sing
The Wicked Man's Trap - At the Zoo with Oogene: Jaguar - Ken Blount: Nothing But the Blood
The Missionary Journey - At the Zoo with Oogene: Animal Zoo Review - Ken Blount: In the Name of Jesus
Feed Your Spirit - At the Zoo with Oogene: Jaguar - Ken Blount: Fear Not
Praise Beats Complaining - At the Zoo with Oogene: Ostrich - Ken Blount: Don't Let the Devil Steal Your Joy
Believe the Best - At the Farm with Oogene: Horse
Pride Comes Before Trouble - At the Zoo with Oogene: Zebra - Ken Blount: Fear Not
Honesty - At the Zoo with Oogene: Flamingo - Ken Blount: Nothing But the Blood
Peer Pressure - At the Zoo with Oogene: Red Kangaroo - Ken Blount: Fear Not
Gorilla Prank
The New Man (introducing the Wichita Slim character played by Kenneth Copeland) - At the Zoo with Oogene: Animal Zoo Review - Kellie Copeland: It's God
By His Stripes - At the Zoo with Oogene: Jaguar - Ken Blount: All Hail King Jesus
The Fugitive, Part 1 - At the Zoo with Oogene: White Rhinoceros
The Fugitive, Part 2 - At the Zoo with Oogene: Polar Bear
Control Your Temper - At the Zoo with Oogene: Bengal Tiger - Ken Blount: In the Name of Jesus

Spin-offs
Willie George Ministries launched three direct-to-video spin-offs of The Gospel Bill show: The Candy Store, Bill Gunter, U.S. Marshal, and The Cimarron Trail.

Dry Gulch, U.S.A.
Shortly after The Gospel Bill Show first aired, Willie George opened Dry Gulch, U.S.A. (now known as New Life Ranch Frontier Cove) in Adair, Oklahoma, a Western-themed Christian children's summer camp nestled near Lake Hudson with over 1.25 miles of shoreline.

Bill Gunter, U.S. Marshal
A more traditional western-style program that was shot on location at Dry Gulch, U.S.A. Gospel Bill is renamed Bill Gunter, while the other characters retain their names. Bill Gunter, U.S. Marshal is not as campy as The Gospel Bill Show, and takes itself much more seriously. The show was sold strictly as part of a video club and was sold at Church on the Move later on as well.
Bill Gunter is a United States Marshall in the difficult days of the Oklahoma Indian Territory. Striving to maintain a strong Christian testimony in the midst of lawlessness, Gunter is a powerful role model for young children. The action, excitement and romance of the Old West combined with solid Biblical principles for the unforgettable viewing experience

The Candy Store
The Candy Store was a television show that was a tie-in to The Gospel Bill Show that shared some of that show's characters. It was a program for pre-schoolers that featured Miss Lana and Nicodemus as well as a newcomer, Lefty Wright (Jim Wideman).
Characters

Miss Lana
Nicodemus
Elmer Barnes
Barkimaeus, The Faith Dog
Lefty Wright
Miss Trudi Lou
Wendell, the WoodchuckEpisode Titles

A: is for Abraham
B: is For Bible
C: is for Christ
D: is for David
E: is for Esther
F: is for Faith
G: is for Grace
H: is for Heaven
I: is for You
J: is for Jesus
K: is for Kindness
L: is for Love
M: is for Miracle
N: is for Noah
O: is for Obey
P: is for Prayer
Q: is for Queen
R: is for Rejoice
S: is for Sickness (Healing)
T: is for Temple
U: is for Unbelief
V: is for Victory
W: is for Wealth
XYZ: is the End

The Cimarron Trail
Contrary to popular belief this show was not a new series but was actually the Bill Gunter U.S. Marshal series renamed. Pastor George had wanted the series to be called this originally but when shooting for the series began it was relayed to him that the name The Cimarron Trail was copyrighted and could not be used for the name. While Pastor George did not like using the name Bill Gunter U.S. Marshall it was the name chosen at the time. Later on towards the end of the series it was found out that the name The Cimarron Trail was not taken or copyrighted so the series was renamed as Pastor Willie George had wanted it to be.

The Wichita Slim Trilogy
In addition to the aforementioned spin-offs, there were also three related movies. The cast was left mainly intact, but the Gospel Bill/Bill Gunter character was now teamed up with (now U.S. Marshall) Wichita Slim (Kenneth Copeland).

The Gunslinger, which revolves around a shooting where Wichita Slim is injured and loses his memory, causing him to temporarily revert to his outlaw ways. (This was the only movie in the trilogy to be completed during the show's run)
Covenant Rider involves the two Marshalls efforts to rescue Bill Gunter's nephew, who was kidnapped by outlaws associated with Saul Gillespe (guest star: fellow televangelist Jesse Duplantis).
The Treasure of Eagle Mountain concerns a treasure left by a retired (and seriously wounded) lawman to his jaded son, and the efforts to find it. (The name is a reference to Eagle Mountain Lake, located near Copeland's ministry headquarters northwest of Fort Worth, Texas.)

See also
Fire By Nite (another Christian youth television program from Willie George)
Passage 9:
Built for the Kill
Built for the Kill is a nature series made by Granada Wild for the National Geographic Channel. It was produced from 2001 to 2004, with a total of 31 episodes. Each episode runs for approximately 48 minutes including the credits and opening titles.

Format
Episodes of Built For The Kill cover a topic or habitat for predatory animals, such as "Coral Reef" or "Packs". If the episode is the name of a Habitat (Coral Reef), the episode will feature predators from that environment. If the episode's name is something like "Jaws" or "Packs", it will feature predators who utilize the name of the episode. Built For The Kill uses a graphical approach to catch the audiences attention, often showing inner workings of the predatory animals (e.g. showing a snake's "Jacobson Organ" inside its mouth) by using diagrams. Some effects seen are used to show the audience what they can't really see, but is there (such as the electricity coming from an Electric Ray or the sound waves used in Echo Location). This graphical approach to nature is meant to make the documentary more interesting to watch.
Built for the Kill's classic opening was a montage of creatures featured in the first 7 episodes (Desert, Coral Reef, Rainforest, Grassland, Miniature, Swamp and Ocean) with a catchy theme song. This opening was changed further into the series to one that shows the National Geographic logo in various parts. The theme song stayed the same however.
In 2011 National Geographic Channel resurrect the show with four new episodes. However, the four episodes were presented with a slightly different style than the original. The following four episodes are (lion, great white shark, polar bear, and crocodile) and is expected to be continued.

Episodes
Home releases
(2005, Europe, 2 Discs)01 Claws
02 Killer Canines
03 Jaws
04 Packs
05 Speed

Collection 1 (2009, Australia, 4 Discs)
01 Desert
02 Coral Reef
03 Rainforest
04 Grassland
05 Miniature
06 Swamp
07 Ocean
08 Cold
09 Night
10 Island

Collection 2 (2010, Australia, 4 Discs)
01 Forest
02 River
03 Hidden
04 Chase
05 Poison
06 Ambush
07 Birds of Prey
08 Cat
09 Shark
10 Snake

Related National Geographic programs
Dangerous Encounters
Battle at Kruger

External links
https://web.archive.org/web/20120508011716/http://natgeotv.com/uk/built-for-the-kill
https://web.archive.org/web/20100131091012/http://www.locatetv.com/tv/built-for-the-kill
Built for the Kill at IMDb
Passage 10:
Whiskeytown, California
Whiskeytown was an unincorporated community in Shasta County, California, United States. Although once a bustling mining town, it was flooded to make way for Whiskeytown Lake in 1962, now part of Whiskeytown–Shasta–Trinity National Recreation Area. All that remains is the relocated store, a few residences, mostly occupied by National Recreation Area personnel, and old mines that are above the water level of the lake. Whiskeytown is registered as a California Historical Landmark.

History
Whiskeytown was one of Shasta County's first gold mining settlements during the California Gold Rush of 1849, though at the time it was called Whiskey Creek Diggings. There are two different stories for how the settlement got its name: The first states that a barrel of whiskey fell from a pack mule and into the creek that ran by Whiskeytown; the second attributes the name to the legend that miners at Whiskeytown could drink a barrel of the hard liquor a day.The area became known as a source for gold. The Redding Record Searchlight reports miners averaged $50 in gold per day, and in 1851 a 56-ounce gold nugget was found. The first woman arrived in town in 1852, and by 1855, about 1,000 gold miners lived in Whiskeytown. The post office was opened in 1856, but the federal government didn't allow the Whiskeytown name to be attached to it because it was considered inappropriate. Finally, in 1952, the federal government agreed to name the post office after the town.Construction of the Whiskeytown Dam began in 1960, and the basin began to fill with water in 1962. Some Whiskeytown buildings were moved to higher ground, but others remain underwater. The dam was dedicated by President John F. Kennedy in 1963.

Present day
Today, what was once a bustling mining town is a popular lake and recreation area. Whiskeytown Lake, part of the Central Valley Project, draws people looking to swim, sail, kayak, or fish, among other activities. On clear days, the outlines of buildings that were once Whiskeytown can be seen at the bottom of the lake, according to the Redding Record Searchlight.Whiskeytown Cemetery was moved during the construction of the dam. All the graves were exhumed and transported to higher ground. Today, Whiskeytown Cemetery is maintained by locals and is somewhat of a hidden tourist destination as well, due to its unusual and festive decor. Graves are decorated with flowers as well as trinkets such as toys or the deceased's favorite snacks or cocktails.
Passage 11:
A Kid for Two Farthings
A Kid for Two Farthings may refer to:

A Kid for Two Farthings (novel)
A Kid for Two Farthings (film)
Passage 12:
The Wild Women of Chastity Gulch
The Wild Women of Chastity Gulch is a 1982 American made-for-television Western romantic comedy film directed by Philip Leacock and starring Priscilla Barnes, Lee Horsley, Joan Collins, Donny Osmond, Morgan Brittany, and Lisa Whelchel. Executive produced by Aaron Spelling, it premiered on ABC on October 31, 1982, and was later syndicated to cable television for rebroadcast.

Synopsis
In Civil War-era Southern Missouri, Dr. Maggie McCullough travels to the aid of her ailing aunt, Annie, the town's madame, in the lovely community of Sweetwater.  With all of the men away at war, Maggie coordinates a truce between Aunt Annie's girls and the respectable women of the town.  While Maggie contemplates the love triangle that is formed with an injured Union fighter, Frank Isaacs, and a captured Confederate doctor, Captain John Cane, a demented faction of soldiers invades Sweetwater and the women must spring into action to defend their homes.

Cast
Priscilla Barnes ...  Maggie McCulloch
Lee Horsley ...  Captain John Cain
Joan Collins ...  Annie McCulloch
Howard Duff ...  Colonel Samuel Isaacs
Morgan Brittany ...  Lannie
Donny Osmond ...  Frank Isaacs
Lisa Whelchel ...  Amy Cole
Pamela Bellwood ...  Sarah
Phyllis Davis ...  Sugar Harris
Jeanette Nolan ...  Gertrude
Paul Brinegar ...  Bodie
Dennis Fimple ...  Lamont
Susan Kellermann ...  Betsy
Paul Carr ...  Confederate Captain
Rex Holman ...  Lt. Pritchard
Rayford Barnes ...  Russell
Steve Hanks ...  Lt. James
Tom Clark ...  Matthew
Robert Rymill ...  Sam
Jerry J. Lewandowski ...  Tommy
Scott Arthur Allen ...  Tom Trombitas

See also
List of television films produced for American Broadcasting Company
Passage 13:
Aaron Spelling
Aaron Spelling (April 22, 1923 –  June 23, 2006) was an American film and television producer and occasional actor. His productions included the TV series Family (1976–1980), Charlie's Angels (1976–1981), The Love Boat (1977–1986), Hart to Hart (1979–1984), Dynasty (1981–1989), Beverly Hills, 90210 (1990–2000), Melrose Place (1992–1999), 7th Heaven (1996–2007), and Charmed (1998–2006). He also served as producer of The Mod Squad (1968–1973), The Rookies (1972–1976), and Sunset Beach (1997–1999).
Through his production company Spelling Television, Spelling holds the record as the most prolific television producer in US television history, with 218 producer and executive producer credits. Forbes ranked him the 11th top-earning deceased celebrity in 2009.

Early life
Spelling was born in Dallas, Texas. He was the son of Pearl (née Wald) and David Spelling, Russian Jewish immigrants. His father worked as a tailor and changed his surname from Spurling to Spelling after emigrating to the United States. Spelling was the youngest of five children. He had three older brothers: Maxwell “Max” Seltzer (circa 1909–?), Sam Spelling (1916–2001) and Daniel Spelling (1921–2009) and an older half-sister, Becky Seltzer Giller (1910–1978).At the age of eight, Spelling psychosomatically lost the use of his legs due to trauma caused by constant anti-semitic bullying from his schoolmates, and was confined to bed for a year. He made a full recovery.After attending Forest Avenue High School in Dallas, he served in the United States Army Air Corps as a pilot during World War II.
Spelling later graduated from Southern Methodist University in 1949, where he was a cheerleader.

Career
Spelling made his first appearance as an actor in a film as Harry Williams in Vicki, directed by Harry Horner, in 1953. That same year, he appeared in the TV series I Led Three Lives and Dragnet (six episodes, 1953–55). Spelling appeared in episode 112 of I Love Lucy ("Tennessee Bound," season 4, 1955) and Alfred Hitchcock Presents ("Breakdown", 1955)., as Weed Pindle in Gunsmoke's season one, episode 35, "The Guitar" (1956); He continued to appear in films and TV (often uncredited) over 25 times by 1957, appearing briefly as an actor in 1963, 1995, and 1998 (all uncredited.)Spelling sold his first script to Jane Wyman Presents in 1954. He guest-starred that same year as a dogcatcher in the premiere episode of the CBS situation comedy, Willy, starring June Havoc as a young lawyer in New Hampshire, who later relocates to New York City to represent a vaudeville troupe.Two years later, Spelling gained experience as a producer and additional credits as a script writer working for Four Star Television on the series Zane Grey Theater, which aired between 1956 and 1961. Of the 149 episodes in that series, he wrote 20 of the teleplays and produced many others. Spelling produced Burke's Law while at Four Star.  The show was the first success for Spelling and pioneered the multiple guest star format, later seen on The Love Boat and Fantasy Island. Thomas-Spelling Productions was a television production company formed by comedian Danny Thomas and producer Aaron Spelling on April 15, 1966, as a partnership with 24 properties. Thomas continued his existing partnership, T&L Productions, with Sheldon Leonard. The company adapted its name by July 18, 1966, when it announced the financial involvement of ABC with its first show, Range (later Rango), a half-hour comedy western starring Tim Conway and its rented space on Desilu Productions' Gower lot. ABC also picked up another show for a pilot, just in an outline treatment, in The Guns of Will Sonnett.  Thomas-Spelling Productions' active operations ended with the last season of The Mod Squad in 1972.  Spelling formed a new partnership with Leonard Goldberg, Spelling-Goldberg Productions.
Beginning in 1965, Spelling began producing successful television shows including The Mod Squad, The Rookies, Family, Charlie's Angels, Fantasy Island, The Love Boat, Dynasty, Beverly Hills, 90210 (which starred his daughter Tori), Melrose Place, 7th Heaven, Charmed, Jane's House and Sunset Beach. Spelling founded Spelling Entertainment in 1965, alongside partnerships with comedian/actor Danny Thomas (Thomas-Spelling Productions, 1966–1972), and television/film producer Leonard Goldberg (Spelling-Goldberg Productions, 1972–1986) He produced the unsuccessful situation comedy The San Pedro Beach Bums in 1977.
In 2004, Spelling was portrayed in two television movies: Dan Castellaneta portrayed Spelling in Behind the Camera: The Unauthorized Story of Charlie's Angels, and Nicholas Hammond portrayed Spelling in television movie Dynasty: The Making of a Guilty Pleasure.

Personal life
Spelling married actress Carolyn Jones in 1953, in California when he was 30 and she was 23. They divorced in 1964. He briefly dated actress Jill Haworth when he was 42 and she was 19. Spelling married Candy Gene (née Marer) in 1968 when he was 45 and she was 23. The couple had daughter Tori in 1973 and son Randy in 1978.In 1988, Spelling bought the 6-acre (2.4 ha) property of Bing Crosby's former Los Angeles house. He demolished the property and built a 123-room home on the lot in 1991. Known as "The Manor", it has 56,500 square feet (5,250 m2) of floor space and as of 2006 was the largest single-family home in Los Angeles. Spelling's widow Candy listed the home for sale in 2008 for $150 million. Heiress Petra Ecclestone ultimately purchased the property for $85 million in 2011 through a brokered agreement that was developed by Brandon Davis, the brother of Jason Davis and grandson of wealthy industrialist, Marvin Davis.In 1992, Candy, Spelling's second wife, commissioned pinball manufacturer Data East to produce a personalized table as a gift to Spelling. The game, a modified version of Data East's Lethal Weapon 3 table, has since appeared publicly at collector's expos.

Legacy and death
On September 15, 1978, Spelling was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame located at 6667 Hollywood Blvd. In 1996, he was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame.
In 1983, he was accorded the NAACP Humanitarian Award for his monetary donation that permitted a 21-year-old's heart transplant operation.In 2001, Spelling was diagnosed with oral cancer.On June 23, 2006, Spelling died at The Manor, his estate in Holmby Hills, Los Angeles, from complications of a stroke he suffered five days prior. He also suffered from Alzheimer's disease. A private funeral was held several days later, and Spelling was entombed in a mausoleum in Culver City's Hillside Memorial Park Cemetery.
On August 27, 2006, Spelling was posthumously honored at the 58th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards by former employees Joan Collins, Stephen Collins, Heather Locklear, Farrah Fawcett, Kate Jackson and Jaclyn Smith.
7th Heaven's May 13, 2007, episode, the last before the series finale, was dedicated to Spelling. When 7th Heaven ended its run, it was touted by the network as being Spelling's longest-running series and the longest-running "family drama" in American television history.

Filmography
Spelling was a producer in all films unless otherwise noted.

Film
As writerAs an actor

Television
As writerAs an actorMiscellaneous crewSoundtrackAs directorThanks

Awards and nominations
See also
Norman Lear
David L. Wolper
Alan Landsburg
Passage 14:
Menstrual cycle
The menstrual cycle is a series of natural changes in hormone production and the structures of the uterus and ovaries of the female reproductive system that makes pregnancy possible. The ovarian cycle controls the production and release of eggs and the cyclic release of estrogen and progesterone. The uterine cycle governs the preparation and maintenance of the lining of the uterus (womb) to receive an embryo. These cycles are concurrent and coordinated, normally last between 21 and 35 days, with a median length of 28 days, and continue for about 30–45 years.
Naturally occurring hormones drive the cycles; the cyclical rise and fall of the follicle stimulating hormone prompts the production and growth of oocytes (immature egg cells). The hormone estrogen stimulates the uterus lining (endometrium) to thicken to accommodate an embryo should fertilization occur. The blood supply of the thickened lining provides nutrients to a successfully implanted embryo. If implantation does not occur, the lining breaks down and blood is released. Triggered by falling progesterone levels, menstruation (a "period", in common parlance) is the cyclical shedding of the lining, and is a sign that pregnancy has not occurred.
Each cycle occurs in phases based on events either in the ovary (ovarian cycle) or in the uterus (uterine cycle). The ovarian cycle consists of the follicular phase, ovulation, and the luteal phase; the uterine cycle consists of the menstrual, proliferative and secretory phases. Day one of the menstrual cycle is the first day of the period, which lasts for about five days. Around day fourteen, an egg is usually released from the ovary. Menarche (the onset of the first period) usually occurs around the age of twelve years.
The menstrual cycle can cause some women to experience premenstrual syndrome with symptoms that may include  tender breasts, and tiredness. More severe symptoms that affect daily living are classed as premenstrual dysphoric disorder, and are experienced by 3–8% of women. During the first few days of menstruation some women experience period pain that can spread from the abdomen to the back and upper thighs. The menstrual cycle can be modified by hormonal birth control.

Cycles and phases
The menstrual cycle encompasses the ovarian and uterine cycles. The ovarian cycle describes changes that occur in the follicles of the ovary, whereas the uterine cycle describes changes in the endometrial lining of the uterus.  Both cycles can be divided into phases.  The ovarian cycle consists of alternating follicular and luteal phases, and the uterine cycle consists of menstruation, the proliferative phase, and the secretory phase. The menstrual cycle is controlled by the hypothalamus in the brain, and the anterior pituitary gland at the base of the brain. The hypothalamus releases gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), which causes the nearby anterior pituitary to release follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Before puberty, GnRH is released in low steady quantities and at a steady rate. After puberty, GnRH is released in large pulses, and the frequency and magnitude of these determine how much FSH and LH are produced by the pituitary.Measured from the first day of one menstruation to the first day of the next, the length of a menstrual cycle varies but has a median length of 28 days. The cycle is often less regular at the beginning and end of a woman's reproductive life. At puberty, a child's body begins to mature into an adult body capable of sexual reproduction; the first period (called menarche) occurs at around 12 years of age and continues for about 30–45 years. Menstrual cycles end at menopause, which is usually between 45 and 55 years of age.

Ovarian cycle
Between menarche and menopause the ovaries regularly alternate between luteal and follicular phases during the monthly menstrual cycle. Stimulated by gradually increasing amounts of estrogen in the follicular phase, discharges of blood flow stop and the uterine lining thickens. Follicles in the ovary begin developing under the influence of a complex interplay of hormones, and after several days one, or occasionally two, become dominant, while non-dominant follicles shrink and die. About mid-cycle, some 10–12 hours after the increase in luteinizing hormone, known as the LH surge, the dominant follicle releases an oocyte, in an event called ovulation.After ovulation, the oocyte lives for 24 hours or less without fertilization, while the remains of the dominant follicle in the ovary become a corpus luteum –  a body with the primary function of producing large amounts of the hormone progesterone. Under the influence of progesterone, the uterine lining changes to prepare for potential implantation of an embryo to establish a pregnancy. The thickness of the endometrium continues to increase in response to mounting levels of estrogen, which is released by the antral follicle (a mature ovarian follicle) into the blood circulation. Peak levels of estrogen are reached at around day thirteen of the cycle and coincide with ovulation. If implantation does not occur within about two weeks, the corpus luteum degenerates into the corpus albicans, which does not produce hormones, causing a sharp drop in levels of both progesterone and estrogen. This drop causes the uterus to lose its lining in menstruation; it is around this time that the lowest levels of estrogen are reached.In an ovulatory menstrual cycle, the ovarian and uterine cycles are concurrent and coordinated and last between 21 and 35 days, with a population average of 27–29 days. Although the average length of the human menstrual cycle is similar to that of the lunar cycle, there is no causal relation between the two.

Follicular phase
The ovaries contain a finite number of egg stem cells, granulosa cells and theca cells, which together form primordial follicles. At around 20 weeks into gestation some 7 million immature eggs have already formed in an ovary. This decreases to around 2 million by the time a girl is born, and 300,000 by the time she has her first period. On average, one egg matures and is released during ovulation each month after menarche. Beginning at puberty, these mature to primary follicles independently of the menstrual cycle.  The development of the egg is called oogenesis and only one cell survives the divisions to await fertilization. The other cells are discarded as polar bodies, which cannot be fertilized. The follicular phase is the first part of the ovarian cycle and it ends with the completion of the antral follicles. Meiosis (cell division) remains incomplete in the egg cells until the antral follicle is formed. During this phase usually only one ovarian follicle fully matures and gets ready to release an egg. The follicular phase shortens significantly with age, lasting around 14 days in women aged 18–24 compared with 10 days in women aged 40–44.Through the influence of a rise in follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) during the first days of the cycle, a few ovarian follicles are stimulated. These follicles, which have been developing for the better part of a year in a process known as folliculogenesis, compete with each other for dominance. All but one of these follicles will stop growing, while one dominant follicle – the one that has the most FSH receptors –  will continue to maturity. The remaining follicles die in a process called follicular atresia. Luteinizing hormone (LH) stimulates further development of the ovarian follicle. The follicle that reaches maturity is called an antral follicle, and it contains the ovum (egg cell).The theca cells develop receptors that bind LH, and in response secrete large amounts of androstenedione. At the same time the granulosa cells surrounding the maturing follicle develop receptors that bind FSH, and in response start secreting androstenedione, which is converted to estrogen by the enzyme aromatase. The estrogen inhibits further production of FSH and LH by the pituitary gland. This negative feedback regulates levels of FSH and LH. The dominant follicle continues to secrete estrogen, and the rising estrogen levels make the pituitary more responsive to GnRH from the hypothalamus. As estrogen increases this becomes a positive feedback signal, which makes the pituitary secrete more FSH and LH. This surge of FSH and LH usually occurs one to two days before ovulation and is responsible for stimulating the rupture of the antral follicle and release of the oocyte.

Ovulation
Around day fourteen, the egg is released from the ovary.  Called ovulation, this occurs when a mature egg is released from the ovarian follicles into the fallopian tube, about 10–12 hours after the peak in LH surge. Typically only one of the 15–20 stimulated follicles reaches full maturity, and just one egg is released. Ovulation only occurs in around 10% of cycles during the first two years following menarche, and by the age of 40–50, the number of ovarian follicles is depleted. LH initiates ovulation at around day 14 and stimulates the formation of the corpus luteum. Following further stimulation by LH, the corpus luteum produces and releases estrogen, progesterone, relaxin (which relaxes the uterus by inhibiting contractions of the myometrium), and inhibin (which inhibits further secretion of FSH).The release of LH matures the egg and weakens the follicle wall in the ovary, causing the fully developed follicle to release its oocyte. If it is fertilized by a sperm, the oocyte promptly matures into an ootid, which blocks the other sperm cells and becomes a mature egg. If it is not fertilized by a sperm, the oocyte degenerates. The mature egg has a diameter of about 0.1 mm (0.0039 in), and is the largest human cell.Which of the two ovaries – left or right – ovulates appears random; no left and right coordinating process is known. Occasionally both ovaries release an egg; if both eggs are fertilized, the result is fraternal twins. After release from the ovary, the egg is swept into the fallopian tube by the fimbria –  a fringe of tissue at the end of each fallopian tube. After about a day, an unfertilized egg disintegrates or dissolves in the fallopian tube, and a fertilized egg reaches the uterus in three to five days.Fertilization usually takes place in the ampulla, the widest section of the fallopian tubes. A fertilized egg immediately starts the process of embryonic development. The developing embryo takes about three days to reach the uterus, and another three days to implant into the endometrium. It has reached the blastocyst stage at the time of implantation: this is when pregnancy begins. The loss of the corpus luteum is prevented by fertilization of the egg.  The syncytiotrophoblast (the outer layer of the resulting embryo-containing blastocyst that later becomes the outer layer of the placenta) produces human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), which is very similar to LH and preserves the corpus luteum. During the first few months of pregnancy, the corpus luteum continues to secrete progesterone and estrogens at slightly higher levels than those at ovulation. After this and for the rest of the pregnancy, the placenta secretes high levels of these hormones – along with human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), which stimulates the corpus luteum to secrete more progesterone and estrogens, blocking the menstrual cycle. These hormones also prepare the mammary glands for milk production.

Luteal phase
Lasting about 14 days, the luteal phase is the final phase of the ovarian cycle and it corresponds to the secretory phase of the uterine cycle. During the luteal phase, the pituitary hormones FSH and LH cause the remaining parts of the dominant follicle to transform into the corpus luteum, which produces progesterone. The increased progesterone starts to induce the production of estrogen. The hormones produced by the corpus luteum also suppress production of the FSH and LH that the corpus luteum needs to maintain itself. The level of FSH and LH fall quickly, and the corpus luteum atrophies. Falling levels of progesterone trigger menstruation and the beginning of the next cycle. From the time of ovulation until progesterone withdrawal has caused menstruation to begin, the process typically takes about two weeks. For an individual woman, the follicular phase often varies in length from cycle to cycle; by contrast, the length of her luteal phase will be fairly consistent from cycle to cycle at 10 to 16 days (average 14 days).

Uterine cycle
The uterine cycle has three phases: menses, proliferative and secretory.

Menstruation
Menstruation (also called menstrual bleeding, menses or a period) is the first and most evident phase of the uterine cycle and first occurs at puberty. Called menarche, the first period occurs at the age of around twelve or thirteen years. The average age is generally later in the developing world and earlier in the developed world.  In precocious puberty, it can occur as early as age eight years, and this can still be normal.Menstruation is initiated each month by falling levels of estrogen and progesterone and the release of prostaglandins, which constrict the spiral arteries. This causes them to spasm, contract and break up. The blood supply to the endometrium is cut off and the cells of the top layer of the endometrium (the stratum functionalis) become deprived of oxygen and die. Later the whole layer is lost and only the bottom layer, the stratum basalis, is left in place. An enzyme called plasmin breaks up the blood clots in the menstrual fluid, which eases the flow of blood and broken down lining from the uterus. The flow of blood continues for 2–6 days and around 30–60 milliliters of blood is lost, and is a sign that pregnancy has not occurred.The flow of blood normally serves as a sign that a woman has not become pregnant, but this cannot be taken as certainty, as several factors can cause bleeding during pregnancy. Menstruation occurs on average once a month from menarche to menopause, which corresponds with a woman's fertile years. The average age of menopause in women is 52 years, and it typically occurs between 45 and 55 years of age. Menopause is preceded by a stage of hormonal changes called perimenopause.Eumenorrhea denotes normal, regular menstruation that lasts for around the first 5 days of the cycle. Women who experience menorrhagia (heavy menstrual bleeding) are more susceptible to iron deficiency than the average person.

Proliferative phase
The proliferative phase is the second phase of the uterine cycle when estrogen causes the lining of the uterus to grow and proliferate. The latter part of the follicular phase overlaps with the proliferative phase of the uterine cycle. As they mature, the ovarian follicles secrete increasing amounts of estradiol, an estrogen. The estrogens initiate the formation of a new layer of endometrium in the uterus with the spiral arterioles.As estrogen levels increase, cells in the cervix produce a type of cervical mucus that has a higher pH and is less viscous than usual, rendering it more friendly to sperm. This increases the chances of fertilization, which occurs around day 11 to day 14. This cervical mucus can be detected as a vaginal discharge that is copious and resembles raw egg whites. For women who are practicing fertility awareness, it is a sign that ovulation may be about to take place, but it does not mean ovulation will definitely occur.

Secretory phase
The secretory phase is the final phase of the uterine cycle and it corresponds to the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle. During the secretory phase, the corpus luteum produces progesterone, which plays a vital role in making the endometrium receptive to the implantation of a blastocyst (a fertilized egg, which has begun to grow). Glycogen, lipids, and proteins are secreted into the uterus and the cervical mucus thickens. In early pregnancy, progesterone also increases blood flow and reduces the contractility of the smooth muscle in the uterus and raises the woman's basal body temperature.If pregnancy does not occur the ovarian and uterine cycles start over again.

Anovulatory cycles and short luteal phases
Only two-thirds of overtly normal menstrual cycles are ovulatory, that is, cycles in which ovulation occurs. The other third lack ovulation or have a short luteal phase (less than ten days) in which progesterone production is insufficient for normal physiology and fertility. Cycles in which ovulation does not occur (anovulation) are common in girls who have just begun menstruating and in women around menopause. During the first two years following menarche, ovulation is absent in around half of cycles. Five years after menarche, ovulation occurs in around 75% of cycles and this reaches 80% in the following years. Anovulatory cycles are often overtly identical to normally ovulatory cycles. Any alteration to balance of hormones can lead to anovulation. Stress, anxiety and eating disorders can cause a fall in GnRH, and a disruption of the menstrual cycle. Chronic anovulation occurs in 6–15% of women during their reproductive years. Around menopause, hormone feedback dysregulation leads to anovulatory cycles. Although anovulation is not considered a disease, it can be a sign of an underlying condition such as polycystic ovary syndrome. Anovulatory cycles or short luteal phases are normal when women are under stress or athletes increasing the intensity of training. These changes are reversible as the stressors decrease or, in the case of the athlete, as she adapts to the training.

Menstrual health
Although a normal and natural process, some women experience premenstrual syndrome with symptoms that may include acne, tender breasts, and tiredness. More  severe symptoms that affect daily living are classed as premenstrual dysphoric disorder and are experienced by 3 to 8% of women.  Dysmenorrhea (menstrual cramps or period pain) is felt as painful cramps in the abdomen that can spread to the back and upper thighs during the first few days of menstruation. Debilitating period pain is not normal and can be a sign of something severe such as endometriosis. These issues can significantly affect a woman's health and quality of life and timely interventions can improve the lives of these women.There are common culturally communicated misbeliefs that the menstrual cycle affects women's moods, causes depression or irritability, or that menstruation is a painful, shameful or unclean experience. Often a woman's normal mood variation is falsely attributed to the menstrual cycle. Much of the research is weak, but there appears to be a very small increase in mood fluctuations during the luteal and menstrual phases, and a corresponding decrease during the rest of the cycle. Changing levels of estrogen and progesterone across the menstrual cycle exert systemic effects on aspects of physiology including the brain, metabolism, and musculoskeletal system. The result can be subtle physiological and observable changes to women's athletic performance including strength, aerobic, and anaerobic performance.Changes to the brain have also been observed throughout the menstrual cycle but do not translate into measurable changes in intellectual achievement – including academic performance, problem-solving, memory, and creativity. Improvements in spatial reasoning ability during the menstruation phase of the cycle are probably caused by decreases in levels of estrogen and progesterone.In some women, ovulation features a characteristic pain called mittelschmerz (a German term meaning middle pain). The cause of the pain is associated with the ruptured follicle, causing a small amount of blood loss.Even when normal, the changes in hormone levels during the menstrual cycle can increase the incidence of disorders such as autoimmune diseases, which might be caused by estrogen enhancement of the immune system.Around 40% of women with epilepsy find that their seizures occur more frequently at certain phases of their menstrual cycle. This catamenial epilepsy may be due to a drop in progesterone if it occurs during the luteal phase or around menstruation, or a surge in estrogen if it occurs at ovulation. Women who have regular periods can take medication just before and during menstruation. Options include progesterone supplements, increasing the dose of their regular anticonvulsant drug, or temporarily adding an anticonvulsant such as clobazam or acetazolamide. If this is ineffective, or when a woman's menstrual cycle is irregular, then treatment is to stop the menstrual cycle occurring. This may be achieved using medroxyprogesterone, triptorelin or goserelin, or by sustained use of oral contraceptives.

Hormonal contraception
Hormonal contraceptives prevent pregnancy by inhibiting the secretion of the hormones, FSH, LH and GnRH. Hormonal contraception that contains estrogen, such as combined oral contraceptive pills (COCPs), stop the development of the dominant follicle and the mid-cycle LH surge and thus ovulation.  Sequential dosing and discontinuation of the COCP can mimic the uterine cycle and produce bleeding that resembles a period. In some cases, this bleeding is lighter.Progestin-only methods of hormonal contraception do not always prevent ovulation but instead work by stopping the cervical mucus from becoming sperm-friendly. Hormonal contraception is available in a variety of forms such as pills, patches, skin implants and hormonal intrauterine devices (IUDs).

Evolution and other species
Most female mammals have an estrous cycle, but only ten primate species, four bat species, the elephant shrews and the Cairo spiny mouse (Acomys cahirinus) have a menstrual cycle. The cycles are the same as in humans apart from the length, which ranges from 9 to 37 days. The lack of immediate relationship between these groups suggests that four distinct evolutionary events have caused menstruation to arise. In species that have a menstrual cycle, ovulation is not obvious to potential mates and there is no mating season.  There are four theories on the evolutionary significance of menstruation:
Control of sperm-borne pathogens.  This hypothesis held that menstruation protected the uterus against pathogens introduced by sperm. Hypothesis 1 does not take into account that copulation can take place weeks before menstruation and that potentially infectious semen is not controlled by menstruation in other species.
Energy conservation. This hypothesis claimed that it took less energy to rebuild a uterine lining than to maintain it if pregnancy did not occur.  Hypothesis 2 does not explain other species that also do not maintain a uterine lining but do not menstruate.
A theory based on spontaneous decidualization (a process that results in significant changes to cells of the endometrium in preparation for, and during, pregnancy, in which the endometrium changes into the decidua).  Decidualization leads to the development of the endothelium, which involves cells of the immune system, the formation of a new blood supply, hormones and tissue differentiation. In non-menstruating mammals, decidualization is driven by the embryo, not the mother. It evolved in some placental mammals because it confers advantages in that it allows females to prepare for pregnancy without needing a signal from the fetus. Hypothesis 3 defers to an explanation of the evolutionary origin of spontaneous decidualization and does not explain the evolution of menstruation alone.
Uterine pre-conditioning. This hypothesis claims that a monthly pre-conditioning of the uterus is needed in species, such as humans, that have deeply invasive (deep-rooted) placentas. In the process leading to the formation of a placenta, maternal tissues are invaded. This hypothesis holds that menstruation was not evolutionary, rather the result of a coincidental pre-conditioning of the uterus to protect uterine tissue from the deeply rooting placenta, in which a thicker endometrium develops. Hypothesis 4 does not explain menstruation in non-primates.

Notes