Passage 1:
Labyrinth (1984 video game)
Labyrinth is an action-adventure game published in 1984 by Acornsoft for the BBC Micro. Its author, Michael Mathison, describes it as: 

an amalgam of what I'd seen and liked visually and I wanted to make something like an 'arcade' version of an adventure game - with lots of creatures and lots of running around shooting at things but also with some simple puzzle elements.

Gameplay
Labyrinth consists of a complex labyrinth made up of multiple levels. Each level is made up of a number of rooms, with the player only able to see a single room at any one time. Doorways are provided allowing the player to move between rooms.
Each level contains two special rooms: the "Gate Room," and the "Key Room". The Gate Room contains the doorway to the next level which is barred by a deadly forcefield. The Key Room contains a magical crystal which will remove the forcefield, and is generally the most well-guarded and dangerous room in the level.
Rooms are populated with a variety of monsters which become more dangerous as the player progresses through the game as they move more quickly, shoot at the player, or lay poisonous mushrooms. The player can choose to avoid the various monsters (though they may well follow the player through the labyrinth), or try to kill them by shooting at them (though some monsters are invulnerable in this way and reflect the shots back), or squash them with a "boulder" that the player is able to push around with them as they travel (trickier and more risky than shooting and therefore scores more points).  Colliding with a monster will kill it but causes the player to lose health, often leading to the player's death.
Different types of fruit are scattered throughout the labyrinth, which will increase the player's health when eaten. The player slowly loses health at all times while in the Labyrinth, and will eventually die if they don't progress through the game.

Legacy
In 1987 the game was reissued on Superior Software's Acornsoft Hits compilation.
Passage 2:
The Sense of an Ending
The Sense of an Ending is a 2011 novel written by British author Julian Barnes. The book is Barnes's eleventh novel written under his own name (he has also written crime fiction under the pseudonym Dan Kavanagh) and was released on 4 August 2011 in the United Kingdom. The Sense of an Ending is narrated by a retired man named Tony Webster, who recalls how he and his clique met Adrian Finn at school and vowed to remain friends for life. When the past catches up with Tony, he reflects on the paths he and his friends have taken. In October 2011, The Sense of an Ending was awarded the Booker Prize. The following month it was nominated in the novels category at the Costa Book Awards.

Publication and marketing
The Sense of an Ending is Barnes's eleventh novel and was released in hardback on 4 August 2011.  The Sense of an Ending is published by Random House (as a Jonathan Cape publication) in the United Kingdom. The book was released in October 2011 in the United States, after its previously scheduled publication date for the United States was brought forward by three months by Random House's Knopf publishing group to capitalise on the shortlisting of the book as a candidate for the Booker prize. Suzanne Dean designed the cover for The Sense of an Ending. The cover shows floating dandelion seeds, with its edge and the edges of all the pages blackened.

Title
The title is shared by a book of the same name by Frank Kermode first published in 1967, subtitled Studies in the Theory of Fiction, the stated aim of which is "making sense of the ways we try to make sense of our lives". Kermode's book is a well-received piece of literary criticism. Critic Colin Burrow called it one of "the three most inspiring works of literary criticism written in the twentieth century", comparing Kermode's work with Erich Auerbach's Mimesis and E. R. Curtius's European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages.Barnes has stated his choice of title was coincidental with that of Kermode, of whose book he had not previously heard, and which he has never read. He came up with the title before one of his friends pointed out that it had been used already, but decided "there's no copyright in titles".  Notwithstanding which, several reviewers described the novel as being "in conversation" with Kermode.   For example, the critic Boyd Tonkin adds the additional interpretation that Barnes's "show-off" characters could be typical readers of Kermode's work.

Reception
The Sense of an Ending has received mostly positive reviews from critics. Michael Prodger of The Financial Times said the novel's inclusion on the Man Booker Prize longlist was "absolutely merited" and he praised the intricate mechanism of the novel and said Barnes's writing is "founded on precision as well as on the nuances of language."
Prodger added "Its brevity, however, in no way compromises its intensity – every word has its part to play; with great but invisible skill Barnes squeezes into it not just a sense of the infinite complexity of the human heart but the damage the wrong permutations can cause when combined. It is perhaps his greatest achievement that, in his hands, the unknowable does not mean the implausible." The Guardian's Justine Jordan said "With its patterns and repetitions, scrutinising its own workings from every possible angle, the novella becomes a highly wrought meditation on ageing, memory and regret." Boyd Tonkin from The Independent said The Sense of an Ending is "A slow burn, measured but suspenseful, this compact novel makes every slyly crafted sentence count." Anita Brookner, writing for The Daily Telegraph, said the novel is not a thriller, but a tragedy, which resembles Henry James's The Turn of the Screw. She opined that Barnes's reputation would be enhanced by the novel and added, "Do not be misled by its brevity. Its mystery is as deeply embedded as the most archaic of memories."Entertainment Weekly's Stephen Lee gave The Sense of an Ending a B+ and said "Barnes's latest—a meditation on memory and aging—occasionally feels more like a series of wise, underline-worthy insights than a novel. But the many truths he highlights make it worthy of a careful read." Robert McCrum writing for The Observer thought the novel would win the Man Booker Prize because it is "a work of art, in a minor key." During a feature on the 2011 Man Booker Prize nominees, the Channel 4 newsroom team gave The Sense of an Ending a nine out of ten for readability and said "It's beautifully written, very readable, and raises questions which linger in the mind long after the covers are closed." Geordie Williamson from The Australian said the novel is a pleasure to read and explained there is "a fierce and unforgiving lucidity about The Sense of an Ending, a mature reckoning with ageing that makes its competitors seem petulant and shrill." Geoff Dyer in The New York Times said the novel is average at best. "It is averagely compelling ... involves an average amount of concentration and, if such a thing makes sense, is averagely well written: excellent in its averageness!" David Sexton in The Spectator drew a comparison between the narrator of the novel and the "unreliable narrator" of Ford Madox Ford's The Good Soldier, for which – he noted – Barnes wrote an introduction to the Folio Society edition. Although Sexton praised Barnes's skill, "Yet this novella does not move or satisfy ... It is a story repelled by the responsibility of having children, and its final disclosure is offputting ... where's the heart?"

Awards and nominations
In September 2011, The Sense of an Ending was shortlisted for the Booker Prize. Barnes had been shortlisted for the prize on three previous occasions for Flaubert's Parrot (1984), England, England (1998) and Arthur & George (2005). On choosing The Sense of an Ending for the shortlist, judge Gaby Wood said: "It seems to be the most obvious book on this list. It's a quiet book, but the shock that comes doesn't break stride with the tone of the rest of the book. In purely technical terms it is one of the most masterful things I've ever read." On 18 October 2011, The Sense of an Ending was awarded the Booker Prize. Head judge Stella Rimington described the novel as "exquisitely written, subtly plotted and reveals new depths with each reading." She added: "We thought it was a book that spoke to the humankind in the 21st Century."On 15 November 2011, it was announced The Sense of an Ending had been nominated in the Best Novel category at the 2011 Costa Book Awards, though the book lost out to Andrew Miller's novel, Pure.

Film adaptation

A film adaptation of the same name made its world premiere as the opening film at the Palm Springs International Film Festival in Palm Springs, California, on 5 January 2017. The limited US release began on 10 March 2017. It was directed by Ritesh Batra from a screenplay adaptation by Nick Payne with a cast including Michelle Dockery, Emily Mortimer, Jim Broadbent, Charlotte Rampling, and Harriet Walter.
Passage 3:
Indianapolis News
The Indianapolis News was an evening newspaper published for 130 years, beginning December 7, 1869, and ending on October 1, 1999.  The "Great Hoosier Daily," as it was known, at one time held the largest circulation in the state of Indiana.  It was also the oldest Indianapolis newspaper until it closed and was housed in the Indianapolis News Building from 1910 to 1949.: 3–5  After Eugene C. Pulliam, the founder and president of Central Newspapers acquired the News in 1948, he became its publisher, while his son, Eugene S. Pulliam, served as the newspaper's managing editor. Eugene S. Pulliam succeeded his father as publisher of the News in 1975.The Indianapolis News was an evening paper, and its decline matched a growing circulation of the morning newspaper, the Indianapolis Star. Prior to the closing, there had been a partial merging of the newspaper staff with the Star.

Notable staff members
Medford Stanton Evans (1934–2015) was an award-winning journalist, educator, and author who became the head editorial writer for the News in 1959. He was promoted to editor of the News in 1960, at the age twenty-six, and became the youngest editor of a metropolitan daily newspaper at that time. Because of his editorial at the News, Evans was selected in 1960 to draft the Sharon Statement, which outlined the founding principles for the Young Americans for Freedom. The conservative writer remained as editor of the News through 1974, when he left the city and became a nationally syndicated columnist for The Los Angeles Times. Evans also taught journalism as Troy University in Troy, Alabama, for more than thirty years. Among his many other activities, Evans lead the American Conservative Union from 1971 to 1977, authored several books, and founded the National Journalism Center in 1977 in Washington, D.C.
Frank McKinney "Kin" Hubbard (1868–1930) was a nationally known American cartoonist, humorist, and journalist whose most famous work was the Abe Martin cartoon series. Hubbard  introduced his Abe Martin character to Indianapolis News readers on December 17, 1904, and it appeared six days a week on the back page of the newspaper for twenty-six years. Hubbard also originated and illustrated a once-a-week humor essay for the "Short Furrows" column in the Sunday edition. The Abe Martin cartoon series went into national print syndication in 1910 and the "Short Furrows" column went into syndication the following year. For years after Hubbard's death in 1930, the News and other newspapers continued to print his Abe Martin cartoon series.
Eugene S. Pulliam (1914–1999) began working at the News as its managing editor in 1948 and rose through the managerial ranks to become assistant publisher of the Indianapolis News and the Star  in 1962. He succeeded his father, Eugene C. Pulliam, as publisher of both newspapers in 1975. Known for his advocacy for First Amendment rights and freedom of the press, Eugene S. Pulliam remained the publisher of the News and the Star  until his death in 1999. He also became president of Central Newspapers in 1979 following the death of his stepmother, Nina Mason Pulliam.
Juliet V. Strauss (1863–1918) was a well-known journalist, author, and public speaker from Rockville, Indiana, who wrote a regular weekly column for the News using the pseudonym of "The Country Contributor" from November 1903 until her death in May 1918. Strauss also was a leader in efforts to generate public and state government support to establish Turkey Run State Park in Parke County, Indiana, in 1916 as Indiana's second state park. She began her journalism career as a regular newspaper columnist at the Rockville Tribune in 1893. In addition to her regular newspaper columns, Strauss authored "The Ideas of a Plain Country Woman," a monthly column for the Ladies' Home Journal from 1905 until 1918. She was also a founder in 1913 of the Woman's Press Club of Indiana.
Passage 4:
Someone in the Dark
Someone in the Dark is a collection of fantasy and horror short stories by author August Derleth. It was released in 1941 and was the second book published by Arkham House.  1,115 copies were printed, priced at $2.00. In Thirty Years of Arkham House, Derleth implied that this title had sold out by the end of 1944.
However, more than twenty years later, in 1967, Derleth listed Someone in the Dark in an Arkham House bulletin with this announcement: "We have acquired a small stock of this title, Derleth's first collection of macabre tales, published in 1941. They will be sold at $5.00 the copy to patrons interested in acquiring the book..."
Derleth was being disingenuous in suggesting these 'unearthed' copies were the 1941 edition.  The additional 300 copies were printed in offset by Hunter Publishing Co. in Winston-Salem in 1965, the reprint probably authorized by Derleth himself.  (In The Arkham House Companion, Sheldon Jaffery quotes a letter that seems to indicate this). The 1965 reprint are a quarter-inch higher than the originals, and are bound with headbands (not present in the 1941 first editions).
The 1965 edition is scarce. While it is not generally considered an official Arkham House publication, it is considered an essential acquisition for Arkham House completists.
A paperback reprint was issued by Jove Books in 1978.

Contents
Someone in the Dark contains the following tales:

"When the Night and House "
"Glory Hand"
"Compliments of Spectro"
"A Gift for Uncle Herman"
"McGovern's Obsession"
"Three Gentlemen in Black"
"Muggridge's Aunt"
"Bramwell's Guardian"
"Joliper's Gift"
"Altimer's Amulet"
"The Shuttered House"
"The Sheraton Mirror"
"The Wind from the River"
"The Telephone in the Library"
"The Panelled Room"
"The Return of Hastur"
"The Sandwin Compact"

Reception
E. F. Bleiler noted that "the local, regionalistic American stories are best, while those in imitation of Lovecraft are weakest". New York Times reviewer Louise Maunsell Field gave the collection a relatively favorable review, saying that "The stories are for the most part well told, and lovers of tales of the occult will find the volume entertaining and congenial, although it has little of either sensitivity or beauty." Thrilling Wonder Stories commented that "Mr. Derleth writes quietly and with restraint, in beautifully measured sentences that stick to the essentials of the story he has to tell. His very restraint sometimes plays a trick on him -- and makes his writing appear at time to lack fire".
Passage 5:
Minotaur: The Labyrinths of Crete
Minotaur: The Labyrinths of Crete is a 1992 role-playing adventure video game for Macintosh by Bungie; produced by Jason Jones and Alex Seropian. The game distinguished itself from other games of its time by including a multiplayer mode that functioned over the AppleTalk protocol or Point-to-Point Protocol. A single-player exploration mode was also available, but this mode had no end goal and was useful to discover how the various items found in the maze operated. The game originated in 1988 as an Apple game played over a modem between two opponents, but was never officially released on that platform.
The game's tagline was "Kill your enemies. Kill your friends' enemies. Kill your friends". This tagline has reappeared as a description in the multiplayer menu screens for some of Bungie's other games, such as Myth: The Fallen Lords and Halo 3.
Bungie later licensed Minotaur's game engine to the studio Paranoid Productions (Richard Rouse) who used it to create Odyssey: The Legend of Nemesis, released in 1996.

Reception
Computer Gaming World favorably reviewed Minotaur although criticizing its not using the mouse and lack of a single-player option, and concluded that "a group of dedicated opponents [that] enjoy fast-thinking and ad-lib strategizing will find long-lasting enjoyment from this game". The game was reviewed in 1992 in Dragon #188 by Hartley, Patricia, and Kirk Lesser in "The Role of Computers" column. The reviewers gave the game 4 out of 5 stars. The game sold 2,500 copies.

See also
Pathways into Darkness, originally to be a sequel to this game
Passage 6:
Crónicas
Crónicas ("chronicles") is a 2004 Ecuadorian thriller film, written and directed by Sebastián Cordero. The film was produced by, among others, Guillermo del Toro, director of Pan's Labyrinth, and Alfonso Cuarón, director of Children of Men. It was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2004 Cannes Film Festival.

Overview
Set in rural Ecuador, the movie follows a television journalist named Manolo Bonilla (played by John Leguizamo) as he investigates the rape and murder of children in the area. The film also stars Leonor Watling and José María Yazpik as Manolo's producer and cameraman, respectively. The film was the official Oscar selection from Ecuador in the Best Foreign Language category.

Plot summary
After traveling to a small village in Ecuador, Miami tabloid news reporter Manolo Bonilla (Leguizamo) witnesses the death of a local boy after Vinicio Cepeda, a traveling salesman, hits the boy with his pickup truck. When Cepeda attempts to back his truck away from the boy, a mob, led by the boy's father, Don Lucho, pulls him from his car, severely beats him, and sets him on fire before the local authorities intervene. After both men are arrested, Cepeda is examined at the jail infirmary and taken to his cell where, later that night, he is attacked by Don Lucho and severely injured.
The next morning Manolo Bonilla comes to the prison to interview the men involved. After agreeing to an interview alongside Cepeda, Lucho attacks Cepeda a second time and is taken away. The interview with Cepeda is cancelled due to concerns about Manolo's safety; however, before the reporter leaves, Cepeda notifies him that he has information on the Monster of Babahoyo, a notorious murderer and rapist in the area, and tells him the location where one of the murderer's victims, a nine-year-old girl, is buried. Manolo agrees to interview Cepeda and attempts to free him from prison in exchange for information about the murders. Later that evening Manolo and his cameraman Ivan drive to the location Cepeda mentioned and dig up a shallow grave, indeed containing the body of a small girl.
Over the following days Manolo begins interviewing Cepeda, as well as Cepeda’s wife, son, and babysitter. While interviewing Cepeda, Manolo begins to suspect that Cepeda is, in fact, the Monster of Babahoyo and using him to exonerate himself. After Manolo attempts to get Cepeda to incriminate himself, Cepeda tells him to leave and never come back. Manolo then informs Cepeda that the interview which would free him will not be aired.
Manolo calls the authorities and tells them that he had been receiving anonymous calls about the location of the girl's grave.  He discovers circumstantial evidence placing Cepeda at the locations of the murders on the dates they occurred; however, despite Manolo's request, the news agency airs Cepeda's interviews which help set Cepeda free. After being interviewed by authorities, Manolo and his crew return to Cepeda's home in search of him only to find that he left his pregnant wife alone at their house and took their son to school before leaving the area. Manolo is offered his own show on the news network and, after deciding against turning over the evidence to the police, the team arrives at the airport and parts ways.

Cast
John Leguizamo as Manolo Bonilla
Leonor Watling as Marisa Iturralde
Damián Alcázar as Vinicio Cepeda
José María Yazpik as Iván Suárez
Alfred Molina as Victor Hugo Puentes
Henry Layana as Don Lucho
Tamara Navas as Doña Etelvina
Washington Garzón as Joseph Juan
Rosa Alina Ortiz as Amiga Don Lucho
Raymundo Zambrano as Cura
Camilo Luzuriaga as Capitán Bolivar Rojas
Peki Andino as Sargento Saltos (as Peky Andino)
Luiggi Pulla as Robert

Awards
Crónicas was Ecuador's submission to the 77th Academy Awards for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, but was not accepted as a nominee.

See also
List of submissions to the 77th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film
Passage 7:
Fiscal year
A fiscal year (or financial year, or sometimes budget year) is used in government accounting, which varies between countries, and for budget purposes. It is also used for financial reporting by businesses and other organizations. Laws in many jurisdictions require company financial reports to be prepared and published on an annual basis but generally with the reporting period not aligning with the calendar year (1 January to 31 December). Taxation laws generally require accounting records to be maintained and taxes calculated on an annual basis, which usually corresponds to the fiscal year used for government purposes. The calculation of tax on an annual basis is especially relevant for direct taxes, such as income tax. Many annual government fees—such as council tax and license fees, are also levied on a fiscal year basis, but others are charged on an anniversary basis.
Some companies, such as Cisco Systems, end their fiscal year on the same day of the week each year: the day that is closest to a particular date (for example, the Friday closest to 31 December). Under such a system, some fiscal years have 52 weeks and others 53 weeks.The calendar year is used as the fiscal year by about 65% of publicly-traded companies in the United States and for most large corporations in the United Kingdom. That is the case in many countries around the world with a few exceptions such as Australia, New Zealand, and Japan.Many universities have a fiscal year which ends during the summer to align the fiscal year with the academic year (and, in some cases involving public universities, with the state government's fiscal year) and also because the university is normally less busy during the summer months. In the Northern Hemisphere, that is July to the next June. In the Southern Hemisphere, that is the calendar year, January to December. In a similar fashion, many nonprofit performing arts organizations will have a fiscal year which ends during the summer, so that their performance season that begins in the fall and ends in the spring will be within one fiscal year.
Some media/communication-based organizations use a broadcast calendar as the basis for their fiscal year.

Chart of various fiscal years
Tax year
The fiscal year for individuals and entities to report and pay income taxes is often known as the taxpayer's tax year or taxable year.  Taxpayers in many jurisdictions may choose their tax year. Some federal countries, such as Canada and Switzerland, require the provincial or cantonal tax year to align with the federal year. In the United States, most states retained a 30 June fiscal year-end date when the federal government switched to 30 September in 1976. Nearly all jurisdictions require that the tax year be 12 months or 52/53 weeks. However, short years are permitted as the first year or when changing tax years.Most countries require all individuals to pay income tax based on the calendar year.  Significant exceptions include:

Australia: individuals pay income tax based on the financial year of 1 July until 30 June.
United Kingdom: the tax year for individuals begins on 6 April. This is due to Britain historically having a calendar year starting on Lady Day (25 March) in the Julian calendar but a fiscal year ending on that day. When the UK adopted the Gregorian calendar in 1752, 25 March translated to 5 April and 26 March to 6 April. (See History of taxation in the United Kingdom#Why the United Kingdom income tax year begins on 6 April for more detailed explanation.)
United States: individuals may (but rarely do) elect any tax year, subject to IRS approval.Many jurisdictions require that the tax year conform to the taxpayer's fiscal year for financial reporting. The United States is a notable exception: taxpayers may choose any tax year, but must keep books and records for such year.

Operation in various countries/region
In some jurisdictions, particularly those that permit tax consolidation, companies that are part of a group of businesses must use nearly the same fiscal year (differences of up to three months are permitted in some jurisdictions, such as the U.S. and Japan), with consolidating entries to adjust for transactions between units with different fiscal years, so the same resources will not be counted more than once or not at all.

Afghanistan
In Afghanistan, from 2011 to 2021, the fiscal year began on 1 Hamal (20th or 21 March). The fiscal year aligned with the Persian or Solar Hijri calendar used in Afghanistan at the time.
Following transfer of power to the Taliban administration in September 2021, Afghanistan abandoned the Solar Hijri calendar in favour of the Lunar Hijri calendar. The fiscal cycle was restarted with effect from 1 Muharram 1444 AH (30 July 2022)

Australia
In Australia, a fiscal year is commonly called a "financial year" (FY) and starts on 1 July and ends on the next 30 June. Financial years are designated by the calendar year of the second half of the period. For example, financial year 2024 is the 12-month period ending on 30 June 2024 and can be referred to as FY2023/24. It is used for official purposes, by individual taxpayers and by the overwhelming majority of business enterprises. Business enterprises may opt to use a financial year that ends at the end of a week (e.g., 52 or 53 weeks in length, and therefore is not exactly one calendar year in length), or opt for its financial year to end on a date that matches the reporting cycle of its foreign parent. All entities within the one group must use the same financial year.
For government accounting and budget purposes, pre-Federation colonies changed the financial year from the calendar year to a year ending 30 June on the following dates: Victoria changed in 1870, South Australia in 1874, Queensland in 1875, Western Australia in 1892, New South Wales in 1895 and Tasmania in 1904. The Commonwealth adopted the near-ubiquitous financial year standard since its inception in 1901. The reason given for the change was for convenience, as Parliament typically sits during May and June, while it was difficult for it to meet in November and December to pass a budget.The Financial year is split into the following four-quarters

Austria
In Austria, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Bangladesh
In Bangladesh, the fiscal year is 1 July to the next 30 June.

Belarus
In Belarus, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Brazil
In Brazil, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Bulgaria
In Bulgaria, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December, both for personal income tax and for corporate taxes.

Canada
In Canada, the government's financial year is 1 April to 31 March.(Q1 1 April - 30 June, Q2 1 July - 30 Sept, Q3 1 Oct - 31 Dec and Q4 1 Jan - 31 Mar)
For individual taxpayers, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

China
In China, the fiscal year for all entities is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December, and applies to the tax year, statutory year, and planning year.

Colombia
In Colombia, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Costa Rica
In Costa Rica, the fiscal year is 1 October to 30 September.

Egypt
In Egypt, the fiscal year is 1 July to 30 June.

France
In France, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December, and has been since at least 1911.

Germany
In Germany, the fiscal year runs from 1st January until 31st December.

Greece
In Greece, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Hong Kong
In Hong Kong, the government's financial year runs from 1 April to 31 March.However, a company incorporated in Hong Kong can determine its own financial year-end, which may be different from the government fiscal year.

India
In India, the government's financial year runs from 1 April to 31 March the following year. The financial year from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021 would generally be abbreviated as FY 2020-21, but it may also be called FY 2021 on the basis of the ending year. Companies following the Indian Depositary Receipt (IDR) are given freedom to choose their financial year. For example, Standard Chartered's IDR follows the UK calendar despite being listed in India. Companies following Indian fiscal year get to know their economic health on 31 March of every Indian financial or fiscal year.
The current fiscal year was adopted by the colonial British government in 1867 to align India's financial year with that of the British Empire. Prior to 1867, India followed a fiscal year that ran from 1 May to 30 April.In 1984, the LK Jha committee recommended adopting a fiscal year that ran from 1 January to 31 December. However, this proposal was not adopted by the government fearing possible issues during the transition period. A panel set up by the NITI Aayog in July 2016, recommended starting the next fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December after the end of the current five-year plan.On 4 May 2017, Madhya Pradesh announced that it would move to a January–December financial year, becoming the first Indian state to do so. But later it dropped the idea.

Indonesia
In Indonesia, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Iran
In Iran, the fiscal year usually starts on 21st or 22 March (1st of Farvardin in the Solar Hejri calendar) and concludes on next year's 20th or 21 March (29th or 30th of Esfand in the Solar Hijri calendar).

Ireland
In Ireland, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December. Until 2001, it was the year ending 5 April, as in the United Kingdom, but was changed with the introduction of the euro. The 2001 tax year was nine months, from April to December.

Israel
In Israel, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Italy
In Italy, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December. It was changed in 1965, before which it was 1 July to 30 June.

Japan
In Japan, the government's financial year is from 1 April to 31 March.Japan's income tax year is 1 January to 31 December, but corporate tax is charged according to the corporation's own annual period.

Lithuania
In Lithuania, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Macau
In Macau, the government's financial year is 1 January to 31 December.

Mexico
In Mexico, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Moldova
In Moldova, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Myanmar/Burma
In Myanmar, the fiscal year is 1 October to 30 September.

Nepal
In Nepal, the fiscal year is July 16 (1 Shrawan in Bikram calendar) to July 15 (31 Ashad in Bikram calendar).

New Zealand
In New Zealand, the government's fiscal and financial reporting year is 1 July to the next 30 June and applies also to the budget. The company and personal financial year is 1 April to 31 March and applies to company and personal income tax.

Pakistan
In Pakistan, the government's fiscal year is 1 July of the previous calendar year and concludes on 30 June. Private companies are free to observe their own accounting year, which may not be the same as government's fiscal year.

Philippines
In the Philippines, the government's fiscal year is the calendar year, from 1 January to 31 December.The accounting period for the private sector must follow a 12-month fiscal period which can or can not be synchronized with the calendar year. Most Philippine companies end their fiscal years in December or March.

Poland
In Poland, the fiscal year is the calendar year, from 1 January to 31 December.

Portugal
In Portugal, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Qatar
In Qatar, the fiscal year is from 1 January to 31 December.

Romania
In Romania, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Russia
In Russia, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Singapore
In Singapore, the fiscal year for the calculation of personal income taxes is 1 January to 31 December.The fiscal year for the Government of Singapore and many government-linked corporations is 1 April to 31 March.Corporations and organisations are permitted to select any date as the end of each fiscal year, as long as this date remains constant. However, new companies should consciously choose their financial year end to stretch as much as a duration of 12 months as possible.

South Africa
In South Africa, the financial year for the Government of South Africa is 1 April to 31 March.The year of assessment for individuals covers twelve months, 1 March to the final day of February the following year. The Act also provides for certain classes of taxpayers to have a year of assessment ending on a day other than the last day of February. Companies are permitted to have a tax year ending on a date that coincides with their financial year. Many older companies still use a tax year that runs from 1 July to 30 June, inherited from the British system. A common practice for newer companies is to run their tax year from 1 March to the final day of February following, to synchronize with the tax year for individuals.

South Korea
In South Korea, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Spain
In Spain, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Sweden
In Sweden, the fiscal year for individuals is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.The fiscal year for an organisation is typically one of the following:

1 January to 31 December
1 May to 30 April
1 July to 30 June
1 September to 31 AugustHowever, all calendar months are allowed. If an organisation wishes to change into a non-calendar year, permission from the Tax Authority is required.

Switzerland
In Switzerland, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Taiwan
In Taiwan, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December. However, an enterprise may elect to adopt a special fiscal year at the time it is established and can request approval from the tax authorities to change its fiscal year.

Thailand
In Thailand, the government's fiscal year (FY) is 1 October to 30 September of the following year. For individual taxpayers it is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Turkey
In Turkey, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Ukraine
In Ukraine, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

United Arab Emirates
In the United Arab Emirates, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, the financial year runs from 1 April to 31 March for the purposes of government financial statements. For personal tax purposes the fiscal year starts on 6 April and ends on 5 April of the next calendar year.Although United Kingdom corporation tax is charged by reference to the government's financial year, companies can adopt any year as their accounting year: if there is a change in tax rate, the taxable profit is apportioned to financial years on a time basis.A number of major corporations that were once government-owned, such as BT Group and the National Grid, continue to use the government's financial year, which ends on the last day of March, as they have found no reason to change since privatisation.The 5 April year end for income tax reflects the old civil and ecclesiastical calendar under which New Year began on 25 March (Lady Day). The difference between the two dates is accounted for by the eleven days omitted in September 1752 due to the Calendar (New Style) Act 1750 by which Great Britain also converted from the Julian Calendar to the Gregorian Calendar. However, although the calendar year finished on 24 March, the tax year finished a day later, on 25 March, the Quarter Day.
For a fuller explanation about the history of the United Kingdom income tax year and its start date, see History of taxation in the United Kingdom#Why the United Kingdom income tax year begins on 6 April.

United States
Federal government
In the United States, the federal government's fiscal year is the 12-month period beginning 1 October and ending 30 September the following year. The identification of a fiscal year is the calendar year in which it ends; thus, the current fiscal year is 2023, often written as "FY2023" or "FY23", which began on 1 October 2022 and will end on 30 September 2023.
Until 1976, the fiscal year began on 1 July and ended on 30 June. The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 made the change to allow Congress more time to arrive at a budget each year, and provided for what is known as the "transitional quarter" from 1 July 1976 to 30 September 1976. An earlier shift in the federal government's fiscal year was made in 1843, shifting the fiscal year from a calendar year to one starting on 1 July.For example, the United States government Fiscal Year 2023 is:

1st quarter: 1 October 2022 – 31 December 2022
2nd quarter: 1 January 2023 – 31 March 2023
3rd quarter: 1 April 2023 – 30 June 2023
4th quarter: 1 July 2023 – 30 September 2023

State governments
State governments set their own fiscal year. Forty-six of the fifty states set their fiscal year to end on 30 June. Four states have fiscal years that end on a different date:

Alabama, ends 30 September
Michigan, ends 30 September
New York, ends 31 March
Texas, ends 31 AugustThe fiscal year for the Washington, D.C., government ends on 30 September.Among the inhabited territories of the United States, most align with the federal fiscal year, ending on 30 September. These include American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Puerto Rico is the exception, with its fiscal year ending on 30 June.

Vietnam
In Vietnam, the fiscal year is the calendar year, 1 January to 31 December.

Businesses and organizations
The tax year for a business is governed by the fiscal year it chooses.  A business may choose any consistent fiscal year that it wants; however, for seasonal businesses such as farming and retail, a good account practice is to end the fiscal year shortly after the highest revenue time of year.  Consequently, most large agriculture companies end their fiscal years after the harvest season, and most retailers end their fiscal years shortly after the Christmas shopping season.

See also
4–4–5 calendar
Passage 8:
Headwall Pond
Headwall Pond (77°34′4″S 160°47′2″E) is a very small ice-covered pond in the Labyrinth of Wright Valley, in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica. The pond lies along a rock headwall close northeast of Craig Pond. The descriptive name was suggested by the United States Antarctic Program field party that sampled the pond in 2003–04.
Passage 9:
Acornsoft
Acornsoft was the software arm of Acorn Computers, and a major publisher of software for the BBC Micro and Acorn Electron. As well as games, it also produced a large number of educational titles, extra computer languages and business and utility packages – these included word processor VIEW and the spreadsheet ViewSheet supplied on ROM and cartridge for the BBC Micro/Acorn Electron and included as standard in the BBC Master and Acorn Business Computer.

History
Acornsoft was formed in late 1980 by Acorn Computers directors Hermann Hauser and Chris Curry, and David Johnson-Davies, author of the first game for a UK personal computer and of the official Acorn Atom manual "Atomic Theory and Practice". David Johnson-Davies was managing director and in early 1981 was joined by Tim Dobson, Programmer and Chris Jordan, Publications Editor.
While some of their games were clones or remakes of popular arcade games (e.g. Hopper is a clone of Sega's Frogger, Snapper is Namco's Pac-Man, Arcadians is Namco's Galaxian), they also published a number of original titles such as Aviator, Elite, and Revs. Acornsoft also published text adventures by authors such as Peter Killworth, including Philosopher's Quest (previously titled Brand X) and Countdown to Doom.As a result of the publication of a method to circumvent copy protection measures employed by Acornsoft titles, a High Court injunction against Computing Publications - publisher of Personal Computer World - was granted to Acorn Computers "requiring all copies of the January 1984 issue of PCW to be withdrawn from sale", with the article concerned being regarded as inciting readers to "duplicate computer programs". This injunction was subsequently lifted as a consequence of an out-of-court settlement between the parties involving a damages payment of £65,000 plus costs to Acorn "to meet Acorn's expenses in developing a new locking device". The article's author, Guy Kewney, and the magazine's editor, Jane Bird, argued that printing a software routine showing how to save Acornsoft cassette software to disk was a service to the magazine's readers. The cost of printing the magazine issue concerned was estimated at £100,000.Acornsoft became a subsidiary within Acorn Computer Group, distinct from Acorn Computers who were responsible for the development of Acorn's microcomputer systems, but Acornsoft ceased to operate as a separate company upon the departure of David Johnson-Davies in January 1986. Past this date, Acorn Computers used the Acornsoft name on office software it released in the VIEW family for the BBC Master series. In 1986 Superior Software was granted a licence to publish some Acornsoft games and re-released many, individually and as compilations such as the Play It Again Sam and Acornsoft Hits series. By agreement, the Acornsoft name was also used on the packaging of some of the subsequent Superior games. Superior chose not to take on Acornsoft's text adventure games, most of which were released in updated versions by Topologika along with some sequels from the same authors.
In 1997, Acorn sought to revive the Acornsoft brand for new software releases, such as upgrades to RISC OS, programming tools, a new Web browser, multitasking movie playback (using Acorn Replay), and Java for RISC OS. A stated objective was to demonstrate that a "wide range of innovative software at competitive prices" was available for RISC OS, with support also being potentially offered to third-party software producers. Acornsoft products themselves would be supported by marketing, including advertising, and the provision of press review samples.

Branding
Acornsoft titles extended their consistent branding to the software's loading screens.

Select titles
Acheton – A text adventure
Arcadians – A Galaxian clone
Aviator – A Spitfire flight simulator. With aliens...
Black Box & Gambit - 2 board game type games which were the winning entries of a 'design a game' competition on ITV's The Saturday Show. Black Box was a licensed version of the Waddingtons game of the same name developed by Ben Finn who would go on to co-write Sibelius. Gambit was created by the Oliver Twins and their first commercially released game
Bouncer – A Q*Bert clone
Business Games – An educational package
Carousel – A Carnival clone
Castle of Riddles – A text adventure
Countdown to Doom – A text adventure; first in a trilogy (although sequels Return to Doom and Last Days of Doom were not published by Acornsoft)
Crazy Tracer – An Amidar clone
Creative Graphics – A series of graphical demonstrations of the BBC Micro's visual capabilities, with user editable code
Drogna – Strategy game based on a section of the BBC TV game show The Adventure Game
Elite – A 3D space battle and trading game
Firebug – A platform and ladders game
Free Fall – Survival game set in an out of control space station
Gateway to Karos – A text adventure
Graphs and Charts – Graphical mathematical modelling
Hopper – A Frogger clone
JCB Digger – A scrolling 2D dig-em-up
Kingdom of Hamil – A text adventure
Labyrinth – A 2D maze based shoot-em-up
Magic Mushrooms – A platform and ladders game with built-in level editor
Meteor Mission – A Lunar Rescue clone
Meteors – An Asteroids clone
Missile Base – A Missile Command clone
Monsters – A Space Panic clone
Philosopher's Quest – A text adventure
Planetoid – A Defender clone originally released as Defender
Revs – A Formula Three racing car simulation
Rocket Raid – A Scramble clone
Snapper – A Pac-Man clone
Sphinx Adventure – A text adventure
Starship Command – A 2D space battle game
Super Invaders – A Space Invaders clone
Volcano – A game in which you rescue people from the other side of an active volcano with a helicopter

Acornsoft Games range
Including all arcade, text adventure and board games. All games were compatible with the BBC Micro Model B. Games followed by Model A & B were compatible with both machines. Games followed by Electron were also released separately for the Acorn Electron. Games are listed by their catalogue numbers which are roughly the order of release of the BBC versions.

G01 Philosopher's Quest (BBC 1982, Electron 1984)
G02 Defender (BBC 1982) deleted for legal reasons and later re-released as Planetoid
G02 Aviator (BBC 1983) released with G26-G28 but re-used the deleted Defender's number
G03 Monsters (BBC 1982, Electron 1983)
G04 Snapper (BBC 1982, Electron 1983)
G05 Rocket Raid (BBC 1982)
G06 Arcade Action (BBC Model A & B 1982) 4 games: Invaders, Breakout, Dodgems and Snake
G07 Sphinx Adventure (BBC 1982, Electron 1984)
G08 Cube Master (BBC 1982)
G09 JCB Digger (BBC 1983)
G10 Chess (BBC 1982, Electron 1983)
G11 Maze (BBC 1982, Electron 1984)
G12 Sliding-Block Puzzles (BBC 1982)
G13 Meteors (BBC 1982, Electron 1983)
G14 Arcadians (BBC 1982, Electron 1984)
G15 Planetoid (BBC 1982, Electron 1984)
G16 Super Invaders (BBC 1982)
G17 Castle of Riddles (BBC 1982, Electron 1984)
G18 Missile Base (BBC 1982)
G19 Countdown to Doom (BBC 1982, Electron ROM Cartridge 1984)
G20 Draughts & Reversi (BBC Model A & B 1983, Electron 1983)
G21 Snooker (BBC 1983, Electron 1984)
G22 Starship Command (BBC 1983, Electron 1983)
G23 Hopper (BBC 1983, Electron 1984)
G24 Carousel (BBC 1983)
G25 Kingdom of Hamil (BBC 1983)
G26 Crazy Tracer (BBC 1983, Electron 1984)
G27 Drogna (BBC 1983)
G28 Free Fall (BBC 1983, Electron 1984)
G29 Meteor Mission (BBC 1984)
G30 Gateway to Karos (BBC 1983)
G31 Boxer (BBC 1984, Electron 1984)
G32 Tetrapod (BBC 1984)
G33 Volcano (BBC 1984)
G34 Black Box & Gambit (BBC 1984)
G35 Bouncer (BBC 1984)
G36 The Seventh Star (BBC 1984)
G37 Acheton (BBC 1984)
G38 Elite (BBC 1984, Electron 1984)
G39 Firebug (BBC 1984, Electron 1984)
G40 Quondam (BBC 1984)
G41 Labyrinth (BBC 1984)
G42 Go (BBC 1984, Electron 1984)
G43 Revs (BBC 1985)
G44 Revs 4 Tracks (BBC 1985) extra tracks for the main game
G45 Elite original BBC Micro 6502 Second Processor version
G46 Magic Mushrooms (BBC 1985, Electron 1985)
G47 Elite enhanced (BBC 1986) incl. 6502 Second Processor and Master 128 versionsThere are also a number of completed but unreleased games that have found their way into the public domain such as Crazy Balloon, Hellforce and Bandit that date from around 1983.

Acornsoft Education range
Acornsoft produced a wide range of educational titles aimed at many different age groups.

E01 Algebraic Manipulation (BBC Model A & B 198?)
E02 Peeko-Computer (BBC Model A & B 198?, Electron 1984)
E03 Business Games (BBC Model A & B 198?, Electron 1984) 2 games: Stokmark and Telemark
E04 Tree of Knowledge (BBC 198?, Electron 1983)
E05 Word Hunt (BBC 198?, Electron 1984)
E06 Word Sequencing (BBC Model A & B 198?, Electron 1984)
E07 Sentence Sequencing (BBC 198?, Electron 1984)
E08 Number Balance (BBC 198?, Electron 1984)
E09 Missing Signs (BBC Model A & B 198?, Electron 1984)
E?? Speed and Light (BBC 198?)
E?? Density and Circuit (BBC 198?)
E12 Chemical Analysis (BBC 198?)
E13 Chemical Simulations (BBC 198?)
E14 Chemical Structures (BBC 198?)
E15 Jars (BBC 198?)
E16 Temperature Control Simulation (BBC 1983)
E17 The Examiner (BBC 198?)
E18 Spooky Manor (BBC 198?)
E19
E20
E21
E22 Talkback (BBC 1984, Electron 1984)
E23 Workshop (BBC 1984, Electron 1984)
E24 ABC (BBC 1984)Acornsoft also published and distributed a range of educational software developed by ASK (Applied Systems Knowledge) that were widely used in schools running BBC Micros. These included Podd (find out which actions a red blobby character can perform (e.g. jump, smile, dance), Squeeze (a two player strategy game of squeezing shapes onto a board) and Cranky (solve maths problems to repair a living calculator). These titles were part of the Acornsoft catalogue but used a different code (XBE?? – all other Acornsoft titles began with S so the Education range on BBC Micro cassettes would be SBE??). They ran on both the BBC Micro Model B and Acorn Electron.
The Ivan Berg Software range was also mainly educational but had its own distinct code (XBX??). This included the 6 Grandmaster Quizzes (Theatre, Crime & Detection, Music, History, Science Fiction and Royal), relationship aids "..I Do" Your Guide to a Happy Marriage and The Dating Game and GCE/CSE revision guides (Mathematics, Biology and English).
Acornsoft also distributed other ranges of educational programs developed by companies such as ICL, Good Housekeeping and Bourne but they are not considered part of the official catalogue.

Acornsoft Business range
Acornsoft produced a range of office software for home and business use.

B01 Desk Diary (BBC 198?, Electron 1984)
B02 Forecast (BBC 198?)
B03 VIEW (BBC 198?, Electron ROM cartridge 1984)
B04 VIEW Printer Drivers (BBC 198?)
B05 Personal Money Management (BBC 198?, Electron 1983)
B06 Database (BBC 1983, Electron 1984)
B07 ViewSheet (BBC 1984, Electron ROM cartridge 1984)
B08 Invoicing (BBC 1984)
B09 Mailing (BBC 1984)
B10 Accounts Receivable (BBC 1984)
B11 Stock Control (BBC 1984)
B12 Order Processing (BBC 1984)
B13 Accounts Payable (BBC 1984)
B14 Purchasing (BBC 1984)
B15 Hi-View (BBC 19??)
B26 P-System (BBC with 6502 Second Processor)The series continues but mainly with add-on products for the VIEW word processor such as ViewIndex (an automatic index generator) and ViewSpell (spell-checker) as well as newer versions.
View Professional (1987) was a combined wordprocessor, spreadsheet and database similar to PipeDream on the Z88.Although primarily a programming language suite, Acornsoft released its P-System product featuring UCSD Pascal and Fortran 77 compilers as part of its business range. Developed by TDI for Acornsoft, the product required a 6502 second processor and disc system, preferably with two drives. Despite the £299 price, various tools including an assembler and linker were omitted from the product, these being made available in a separate Advanced Development Toolkit from TDI.

Acornsoft Languages range
Acorn systems came with a version of the BBC BASIC programming language as standard but Acornsoft also produced a wide range of other languages that could be loaded in by cassette or disc or in some cases, supplied in ROM form.

L01 FORTH (BBC 1982, Electron 1983)
L02 LISP (BBC 1982, Electron 1983, Electron ROM cartridge 1984)
L03 BCPL (BBC 1983)
L04 Microtext (BBC 1983)
L05 6502 Development System (BBC 1985)
L06 Logo (BBC 1983, Electron ROM cartridge 1985)
L07 Turtle Graphics (BBC 1983, Electron 1984)
L08 S-Pascal (BBC 1983, Electron 1984)
L09 LISP Demonstrations (BBC 1984)
L10 BCPL Calculations Package (BBC 198?)
L11
L12 BCPL Stand Alone Generator (BBC 1983)
L13 FORTH – ROM version (BBC 1984)
L14 LISP – ROM version (BBC 1982)
L15
L16
L17 PROLOG Micro (BBC 1985)
L18 ISO-Pascal (BBC 1984, Electron ROM cartridge 1985)
L19 COMAL (BBC 1984).
L20
L21
L22 BASIC Editor (BBC 1985)
L23 Termulator (BBC 1987)
L24 ISO-Pascal Stand Alone Generator (BBC 198?)The relative performance of some of Acornsoft's languages was evaluated using a benchmark based on the Takeuchi function, Tak by former Acornsoft managing director, David Johnson-Davies, noting that "it is difficult to imagine a language that performs badly on Tak being much use for anything", illustrating a diversity amongst these language implementations in terms of readability, speed and generated code size. A follow-up article expanded the comparison to other language implementations such as Oxford Pascal, Z80 versions of BBC BASIC, Turbo Pascal and Small-C.

Acornsoft Graphics range and more
The graphics range was used to demonstrate the graphical power of the Acorn computers but only three titles were made available. The X?? code was then used for other types of software.

X01 Creative Graphics (BBC 198?, Electron 1983)
X02 Graphs & Charts (BBC 198?, Electron 1983)
X03 Picture Maker (BBC 1983, Electron 1984)
X04 Shirley Conran's Magic Garden (BBC 1983)
X05 Collector's Catalogue (BBC 198?)
X06 Membership Manager (BBC 198?)
X07 One To Nine (BBC 198?)
X08 Hooked on Numbers (BBC 1983)
X09
X10 Complete Cocktail Maker (BBC 198?, Electron 1984)
X11 Paul Daniels' Magic Show (BBC 198?, Electron 1984)
X12 100 Programs for the BBC Micro (BBC 198?)
X13 Linkword French (BBC 1984)
X14 Linkword Italian (BBC 1984)
X15 Linkword Spanish (BBC 1984)
X16 Linkword German (BBC 1984)
X17 Watch Your Weight (BBC 198?, Electron 1984)
X18 Me & My Micro (Electron 1984)The range took on various themes including Creative Sound (X26).
Passage 10:
Blast Corps
Blast Corps is an action game developed by Rare and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo 64. In the game, the player uses vehicles to destroy buildings in the path of a runaway nuclear missile carrier. In the game's 57 levels, the player solves puzzles by transferring between vehicles to move objects and bridge gaps. It was released in March 1997 in Japan and North America. A wider release followed at the end of that year.
The game was Rare's first game for the Nintendo 64. Its development team ranged between four and seven members, many of whom were recent graduates. The team sought to find gameplay to fit Rare co-founder Chris Stamper's idea for a building destruction game. The puzzle game mechanics were inspired by those of Donkey Kong (1994).
Blast Corps was released to critical acclaim and received Metacritic's second highest Nintendo 64 game ratings of 1997. The game sold one million copies—lower than the team's expectations—and received several editor's choice awards. Reviewers praised its originality, variety, and graphics, but some criticized its controls and repetition. Reviewers of Rare's 2015 Rare Replay retrospective compilation noted Blast Corps as a standout title.

Gameplay
Blast Corps is a single-player action video game. The player controls vehicles to destroy buildings, farms, and other structures in the path of a runaway nuclear missile carrier. The player fails if the carrier collides with an object. The eight demolition vehicles vary in the way they clear structures: the bulldozer rams, the dump truck drifts, the lightweight buggy crashes from higher ground, the tricycle shoots missiles, another truck presses outwards from its sides, and robot mechs tumble and stomp from the land and the air. The player must transfer between vehicles and other machinery to solve puzzles. Objectives include transporting timed explosive crates and bridging gaps. The game's puzzles increase in difficulty as the player progresses through its 57 levels.The world is portrayed from a three-quarters overhead view. The player can adjust the game's viewable perspective with zoom and horizontal panning functions. Pop-up hints will guide the player in the early stages of the game, and other characters audibly encourage the player as each level wears on. The cheery soundtrack increases in tempo as the level's timer runs low. After completing a level, the player can return to explore without a time limit. By finding secrets and activating lights throughout the level, the player raises their score and final medal ranking. There are also secret levels hidden throughout the game, where the player completes objectives against the clock. The player can compete against a ghost copy of their previous path through a level. There are no settings to change the game's difficulty, and the game saves to both the game cartridge itself and external storage.

Plot
The game's story takes place on a parallel Earth, in which mankind lives in relative peace, until an event occurs that threatens the lives of the whole planet. The national government of an unnamed country discovers that the transportation of two defective nuclear missiles has gone wrong, after they begin leaking radiation. The automated carrier transporting them becomes damaged as a result and automatically sets itself on a direct course towards the site for a controlled detonation, effectively placing it in danger where the slightest jolt from hitting buildings or falling into pits would trigger the missiles, causing a catastrophic explosion.
To prevent this, the government hires the demolition company known as Blast Corps - founded by several former military soldiers who were stationed in the base the missiles came from, until an accident involving one of their members led the others to desert their post. Using a variety of different machines to assist them, Blast Corps assigns a new recruit to help clear the carrier's path, ensuring it can get past areas safely, while at the same time seeking out a group of missing scientists needed to conduct the safe detonation of the missiles. Dealing with an array of difficult situations, Blast Corps manages to prevent catastrophe, finding the scientists and putting an end to the threat from the missiles.
After Blast Corps successfully complete their mission, the company finds themselves contracted to help clear several buildings in a city in order to create an emergency runway for a space shuttle returning to Earth. The company successfully completes the mission, later earning a contract to clear debris on the moon, before its employees take a well-earned break after establishing a reputation for being the best demolition company in the business.

Development
Blast Corps was among Rare's first games for the Nintendo 64 and led a run of seven critically acclaimed Rare titles for the console. The game's production began in early 1996. The development team consisted of four recent graduates, though it expanded at times to seven concurrent staff. Martin Wakeley became the game's lead designer. He credited the team's small size for their easy progression from planning to market. Rare founder Chris Stamper was the impetus for the project. He had wanted to make a game about destroying buildings for years prior to Blast Corps's development. The team worked to fit his idea to a gameplay concept and devised a "Constantly Moving Object" conceit that would give the levels a time limit. This idea became the nuclear missile carrier.

Retro Gamer credited Wakeley for Blast Corps's idiosyncratic ideas and humor in light of the game's serious premise. For instance, the Mario Kart 64 "power slide" drift mechanics inspired that of Blast Corps's dump truck. Wakeley championed the drift controls against the rest of the team, who found them aggravating. The game's lead artist, Ricky Berwick, had developed the vehicle concepts without consideration for their in-game function, and the vehicles were only later retrofitted to the gameplay. One of the robot vehicles was designed without an arm because the developers had run out of computer memory to store the data and liked the look anyway. Wakeley determined the game's high score "goal medal" objectives, in which players would attempt to better a set completion time on each level. Blast Corps's Japanese and American quality assurance teams later competed to push the levels to their limits, which resulted in the game's platinum level objectives. Wakeley described these platinum challenges as "just insane" and said he could only finish four himself.Wakeley saw Blast Corps as a puzzle game at its core. He was influenced by the 1994 Donkey Kong, in which the player begins each level with all the tools they need to finish but must learn how to use them. Wakeley said this was Blast Corp's core game mechanic. He was also inspired by the Super Mario 64 demo at Nintendo's annual trade show in 1995, which introduced him to the 3D analog stick and spurred him to achieve something similar. The team's technical accomplishments included character and environment models composed completely of polygons and the absence of distance fog to obscure the draw distance.Nintendo published Blast Corps for their Nintendo 64. In its 1995 trade show preview, it was originally titled Blast Dozer, a name it retained for its Japanese release. (The team had considered other titles, including "Heavy Duty Heroes", "Blast Radius", and "Power Dozer".) Blast Corps was first released in Japan on March 21, 1997, and in North America three days later. Its European and Australian release followed on December 22. The game had been in production for just over a year.

Reception
The game received "universal acclaim", according to review aggregator Metacritic, and "unanimous critical success", according to Retro Gamer. Reviewers highly praised the novelty and variety of Blast Corps's gameplay. Peer Schneider of IGN, in particular, lauded the game's originality. Trent Ward commented in GameSpot that the premise taps into childhood fantasies, while "the unique relationship between the terrain and the vehicles you pilot ensures that Blast Corps will exercise your mind as well as your reflexes".Reviewers struggled to master the game's controls. GamePro's Slo Mo praised this aspect of the game, saying that even mastering the extreme precision of the steering is fun, and rewards the player with both better gameplay technique and an appreciation for the strong distinction between the game's many vehicles. Schneider likewise overcame his initial concerns to appreciate the complexity of the controls and the differences between the vehicles. He considered the locked camera view restrictive when compared to the unrestricted 3D camera in the game's contemporaries. Schneider thought the game should have been longer, with fewer bonus levels and more main missions, though he did appreciate the pacing, design, and difficulty of the included levels. Slo Mo instead asserted that "Over 60 levels and hidden areas within hidden areas give you your money's worth". A Next Generation critic agreed, asserting that the vast size of the levels and numerous secrets and bonus areas make Blast Corps "one of the few Nintendo 64 games that justifies its exorbitant price tag". Shawn Smith and Sushi-X of Electronic Gaming Monthly (EGM) thought the game was repetitive, as did Computer and Video Games. The latter, though, praised Blast Corps's level design and difficulty progression. Ward had fewer reservations, writing that "basically what you have here is a game with great graphics, great sound, and a great premise. What's even more impressive is that the game doesn't really have any substantial flaws to speak of – unless you want to count lack of a two-player mode, which really isn't fair." Crispin Boyer of EGM wrote that the game's best feature was its "palpable sense of suspense" as the carrier advanced on resistant buildings.Critics praised the game's graphics and sound. Schneider found the game unpretentious in comparison to video game trends of photorealistic rendering and cartoonish art. He likened the slick vehicle animations and metallic elements to Micro Machines and Rare's R.C. Pro-Am. Schneider praised the game's texture maps, which made the night scenes and houses look realistic, and the canyons breathtaking. He wrote that the game's 3D programming was errorless, and was particularly pleased about the game's lack of fog, usually used to cover developer limitations. EGM echoed Schneider's praise of the deep landscapes, which Boyer called "incredible". Scott McCall (AllGame) praised the game's realistic polygonal models and technical prowess, and Steve Polak (The Weekend Australian) wrote that Blast Corps showcased the console's graphics capabilities. Schneider described the soundtrack as between "70s pop, disaster movie score, and Country Bear Jamboree". He praised the range of engine, tire screeching, and crashing sound effects. Reviewers disliked the country music tracks with jaw harp.IGN wrote that Blast Corps exemplified qualities of enjoyable Nintendo Entertainment System and arcade games, while EGM considered the game unlike all others. Retro Gamer wrote that the game's combination of puzzles and continuous destruction made the game so unique as to defy genre classification. The magazine described the gameplay concept of returning to explore without a time limit as "a stroke of genius". Retro Gamer thought of Blast Corps as a 3D successor to "nail-biting reaction games" such as Loco-Motion. Computer and Video Games agreed with a reader that Blast Corps was part of a "Destroy" subgenre including games like Desert Strike, Return Fire, and Body Harvest, and Matt Fox of The Video Games Guide put the game in a lineage with Highway Encounter and Lunar Jetman. Slo Mo said it was "like Pilotwings with a kamikaze twist. It's a multifaceted game that melds a slick vehicle sim and a mind-thumping action/strategy challenge with massive destructive force." Schneider said Blast Corps was on par with the quality of Shigeru Miyamoto games and an excellent display of Rare's potential. Next Generation described it as "effectively every Tonka fantasy brought vividly and explosively to life".EGM named it a runner-up for "Most Original Game of the Year" (behind PaRappa the Rapper) at their 1997 Editors' Choice Awards.Blast Corps sold close to a million copies. The game sold reasonably well in Japan. Metacritic ranked the title among the top ten games released in 1997. It remained Metacritic's highest ranked 1997 Nintendo 64 game after GoldenEye 007. Blast Corps was selected as Electronic Gaming Monthly's May 1997 Game of the Month and an IGN Editors' Choice. Later the same year, Electronic Gaming Monthly ranked it number 93 on their 100 best console video games of all time, remarking, "C'mon, not only are you driving all the vehicles you thought were mega cool as a kid – you're using 'em to plow through buildings." Four of six Nintendo Power reviewers recommended the game.

Legacy
Wakeley, the game's designer, considered making a sequel as an action combat game, but thought the concepts behind Blast Corps had been fully exhausted. After praising the game in a 2010 Rare retrospective feature, Retro Gamer's writers craved a sequel. The magazine said the title was proof of the company's inventiveness. Steve Ellis, who was a programmer at Rare, thought Blast Corps to be among the company's most underrated games, and though its physics were now dated, he continued to find the game fun enough to revisit regularly. Blast Corps is included in Rare Replay, a compilation of 30 Rare titles, released on the Xbox One on August 4, 2015. The release's bonus features included behind-the-scenes interviews with Blast Corps's developers. Blast Corps was a standout favorite among Rare Replay reviewers.Rare's Blast Corps began a run of highly praised Nintendo 64 games, including GoldenEye 007, Banjo-Kazooie, Perfect Dark, and Jet Force Gemini. Retro Gamer wrote that Rare had doubled the number of classic Nintendo 64 games and was an important alliance for Nintendo. Microsoft acquired Rare in 2002 for a record price of $377 million. After the industry had changed, Blast Corps designer Martin Wakeley reflected a decade after the game's 1997 release. In 2009, Wakeley said, a studio would rarely entrust the scope of a project like Blast Corps to a team of four recent graduates.The staff of Nintendo Power (1997) and IGN (2014) both listed Blast Corps in the bottom halves of their top 100 Nintendo games of all time. Official Nintendo Magazine ranked the game 84th on a list of the greatest Nintendo games.
Passage 11:
The Long Week-End
The Long Week-End is a social history of interwar Britain, written by Robert Graves and Alan Hodge. It was first published in 1940, just after the end of the period it treats.
Their story covers a wide range of popular and social themes, including politics, business, science, religion, art, literature, fashion, education, popular amusements, domestic life, sexual relations, and much else.The Long Week-End has gone through several reprints, the latest in 2009 by the Folio Society.
Historian Adrian Tinniswood named his 2016 book, The Long Weekend: Life in the English Country House, 1918–1939, after it.

Reception
In a contemporary book review in the peer-reviewed Journal of Modern History, William D. Clark wrote, "To write a social history of England from the newspapers of the last twenty years… demands extraordinary powers of selection and interpretation. Mr. Graves has given us proof that he possesses such powers, but unfortunately in this book he resolutely refuses to use them, misled perhaps by the ideals of the Mass-Observation school. The result is a strange unfocused photograph of the times, in which, although the 'camera-eye' has not lied, it has failed entirely to introduce any perspective or integration." A 1941 review by Kirkus Reviews summarized the book with; "a graphic panorama of fads, fancies, facts, foibles and fingerposts along the way from war to war... Thoroughly good reading of the background of those years, if one wants to look back."
Passage 12:
Linguistics (journal)
Linguistics: An Interdisciplinary Journal of the Language Sciences is a peer-reviewed academic journal of general linguistics published by De Gruyter Mouton. The journal publishes both articles and book reviews. It  publishes two special issues a year. The current Editor-in-Chief is Johan van der Auwera. Since 2010, it publishes 1400 pages per year.

History
Linguistics was started in 1963 by Mouton Publishers in The Hague, apparently on the initiative of Mouton's Peter de Ridder as well as linguist C.H. van Schooneveld. In 1979, after Mouton had been bought by Walter de Gruyter, a new editorial board was established, consisting of Brian Butterworth, Bernard Comrie, Östen Dahl, Norbert Dittmar, Flip Droste, Jaap van Marle, and Jürgen Weissenborn. De facto, Brian Butterworth was editor-in-chief between 1979 and 1982. From 1982 through 2005, the editor was Wolfgang Klein, who was succeeded by Johan van der Auwera.

Abstracting and indexing
The journal is abstracted and indexed in:

The journal has a Thomson Reuters 2015 impact factor of 0.763 and a 5-year impact factor of 0.872.