Passage 1:
Maxime Bono
Maxime Bono (born 1 November 1947 in Algiers, Algeria) is a French politician and a member of the Socialist Party. He has been mayor of La Rochelle from April 1999 to April 2014, president of the Agglomeration community of La Rochelle from January 2000 to April 2014  and an MP of the Charente-Maritime's 1st constituency from April 1999 until June 2012. During his two mandates, he was a member of the Socialist, Radical, Citizen and Miscellaneous Left parliamentary group.

Legal studies and work
Maxime Bono studied public law in the Law and Economics Faculty of the University of Toulouse, graduating with a licence in 1971. He has been a tax inspector between 1972 and 1982.
In 1983, he became cultural councillor of the municipality of La Rochelle. In 1985, he became representative in the cabinet of Michel Crépeau, then mayor of La Rochelle. In 1986, he became chief of the staff of Michel Crépeau.

Political career (1975–2012)
Early period (1975–1999)
He has been a member of the Socialist party since 1974.
He has been a first deputy mayor of La Rochelle during ten years (1989–1999). He was in charge of cultural affairs during this period. From 1993 to 1999, he has been a vice president of the Community of cities of La Rochelle. He was in charge of economics during this period. From 1992 to 1999, he has represented the La Rochelle 6th canton in the General Council of Charente-Maritime.
From 1995 to 1999, he has been a president of the municipality-owned company of the public transportation of La Rochelle.

Mayor of La Rochelle (1999−2014) and MP (1999−2012)
A mayor of La Rochelle since 1971, an MP of the Charente-Maritime's 1st constituency (1973–1993, again from 1997), a former Minister (1981–1986) during the first presidential mandate of François Mitterrand, Michel Crépeau died in Paris on 30 March 1999, after a heart attack which had arisen few days earlier during a parliamentary session of the National Assembly.
In April 1999, Maxime Bono succeeded him as a mayor of La Rochelle, a president of the Community of cities of La Rochelle and an MP of the Charente-Maritime's 1st constituency (the nine cantons of La Rochelle and the two cantons of the Île de Ré). In January 2000, the Community of cities turned into the Agglomeration community of La Rochelle, which currently groups together eighteen towns and villages of Aunis.On 27 April 1999, he resigned as a general councillor of La Rochelle-6 because of the law of the accumulation of mandates ("Cumul des mandats").
However, he didn't seek a third parliamentary mandate in 2012. In the National Assembly, he sat as a member in the committee of the sustainable development and spatial planning. Olivier Falorni (Divers Gauche) succeeded him as an MP of the Charente-Maritime's 1st constituency.In 2013, he decided not to seek a further mayoral mandate, hinting at his defeat at the 2012 parliamentary elections as one of the reasons motivating his decision. Following the 2014 French municipal elections, Maxime Bono was succeeded as mayor of La Rochelle and President of the La Rochelle Agglomeration Community by Jean-François Fountaine (Divers Gauche).

Elections (2001-2008)
Municipal elections
In the 2001 municipal elections, Maxime Bono's miscellaneous left list largely overtook the absolute majority from the first round (67.36%, 15,190 votes). He even polled more than his predecessor Michel Crépeau in 1995 (58.02%).

In the 2008 municipal elections, his miscellaneous left list again largely overtook the absolute majority from the first round. Despite the competition of six lists and a lower percentage than in 2001, his municipal list polled 58.93% (15.400 votes) and got 41 of the 49 seats.

Parliamentary elections
The first constituency of the Charente-Maritime consists of La Rochelle, some of its surrounding towns and villages (Dompierre-sur-Mer, Esnandes, L'Houmeau, Lagord, Marsilly, Nieul-sur-Mer, Périgny, Puilboreau, Saint-Xandre) and the ten municipalities of the Île de Ré (Ars-en-Ré, La Couarde-sur-Mer, La Flotte, Le Bois-Plage-en-Ré, Les Portes-en-Ré, Loix, Rivedoux-Plage, Saint-Clément-des-Baleines, Saint-Martin-de-Ré, Sainte-Marie-de-Ré).

La Rochelle in 2002
Polling 37.12% (21,138 votes) in the first round, Maxime Bono largely overtook the UMP candidate Catherine Normandin (27.63%, 15,731 votes). In the run-off, he was elected as MP with 53.02% (28,725 votes).He attained his highest score in La Rochelle in the first round (41.45%, 12,027 votes) and in the run-off (57.74%, 15,834 votes). Except for Dompierre-sur-Mer where he was overtaken by four votes by Catherine Normandin, he headed in the first round in all the surrounding towns and villages of La Rochelle. Except for Lagord and Marsilly, he got the absolute majority in the run-off in all the surrounding towns and villages of La Rochelle. In the first round, he arrived in second position in the ten municipalities of the Île de Ré; his lowest score was in La Couarde-sur-Mer (21.71%). In the second round, he was defeated by Catherine Normandin in the ten municipalities of the Île de Ré; his lowest score was in Les Portes-en-Ré (32.08%).

La Rochelle in 2007
Polling 40.77% (23,928 votes) in the first round, Maxime Bono overtook the UMP candidate Dominique Morvant, then general councillor of La Rochelle-4 (35.95%, 21,099 votes). In the run-off, he was re-elected as MP with 55.05% (32,345 votes). Compared to 2002, he slightly increased his parliamentary score.He attained his highest score in Esnandes in the first round (45.49%) and in the run-off (62.84%). In La Rochelle, he polled 45.14% (13.120 votes) in the first round and 60.69% (17.667 votes) in the run-off. Except for Marsilly in the first round and the run-off, he headed in the first round and got the absolute majority in the run-off in all the surrounding towns and villages of La Rochelle. In the first round, he arrived in second position in the ten municipalities of the Île de Ré; like in 2002, his lowest score was in La Couarde-sur-Mer (23.11%). In the run-off, he was defeated by Dominique Morvant in the ten municipalities of the Île de Ré; his lowest score was in Loix (32.44%).

Former local mandates
President of the Community of cities of La Rochelle: April 1999-January 2000
General councillor of La Rochelle-6 : 30 March 1992 – 27 April 1999
Mayor of La Rochelle : 19 April 1999 - 5 April 2014
President of the Agglomeration community of La Rochelle : January 2000 - April 2014

National mandate
MP of the Charente-Maritime's 1st constituency (30 March 1999−19 June 2012) : Socialist, Radical, Citizen and Miscellaneous Left parliamentary group, member of the committee of the sustainable development and spatial planning
Passage 2:
Cornelius Demarest House
Cornelius Demarest House is located in Rochelle Park, Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. The house was added to the National Register of Historic Places on January 10, 1983.

See also
National Register of Historic Places listings in Bergen County, New Jersey
Passage 3:
Jean Guiton
Jean Guiton (2 July 1585 – 15 March 1654) was born in La Rochelle, where he followed the occupation of ship-owner. He became a notable Huguenot leader during the Naval battle of Saint-Martin-de-Ré and siege of La Rochelle.
Having been nominated Admiral of the fleet of La Rochelle, Jean Guiton fought the Naval battle of Saint-Martin-de-Ré against Royal forces on 27 October 1622.He later participated to the uprising of Soubise in 1625, leading to the Capture of Ré island by Royal forces that same year.
He became mayor of La Rochelle and, during the 1627-1628 Siege of La Rochelle, he organized an energetic resistance to the troops of king Louis XIII. The scene is still visible today in the City Hall (Hotel de Ville) of La Rochelle, where a marble table with a chip made by his dagger is on display.
Then, Richelieu offered him leadership in the royal fleet and he fought Spain. One of his daughters married the son of the famous Protestant admiral Abraham Duquesne, Abraham Duquesne-Guiton.
Like many other Rochelais (people from La Rochelle), Jean Guiton was a Huguenot.


== Notes ==
Passage 4:
James T. Schleifer
James Thomas Schleifer is an American historian, and emeritus Dean of the Mother Irene Gill Memorial Library, and professor at the College of New Rochelle.

Life
He graduated from Yale University with a Ph.D. in 1972.  He also lectures at Yale University.

Awards
1981 Merle Curti Award

Works
"Tocqueville: Écrits et discours politiques". LA REVUE TOCQUEVILLE / THE TOCQUEVILLE REVIEW, VOL. XIII No. 2, 1992
Eduardo Nolla, ed. (1996). "How Many Democracies?". Liberty, Equality, Democracy. NYU Press. ISBN 978-0-8147-5778-9.
The making of Tocqueville's Democracy in America. University of North Carolina Press. 1980. ISBN 978-0-8078-1372-0.
Cheryl B. Welch, ed. (2006). "Tocqueville's Democracy in America Reconsidered". The Cambridge Tocqueville Companion. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-84064-4.
Passage 5:
Menucha Rochel Slonim
Rebbetzin Menucha Rochel Slonim (1798–1888) was a daughter of Rabbi Dovber Schneuri, the second Rebbe of the Chabad Hasidic dynasty. She is regarded a matriarch to the Chabad dynasty as well as Hebron's Jewish population in general.

Origin of name
Rebbetzin Slonim was born on the 19 Kislev, 5559 AM (27 November 1798), the same day her grandfather, Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi was released from imprisonment in S. Petersburg. Her father chose the name Menucha because in Hebrew the word "menucha" means "peace and quiet". He said, "Henceforth we shall have a little Menucha." She was named Rochel after an aunt that died in her youth.
Her husband's last name was originally Griver, a descendant of Rabbi Moses Isserles, the Rema; they chose to change it to Slonim (this was when it was still easy to change names). They then moved to Hebron.

Emigration to Hebron
After she fell dangerously ill, her father promised that she would live to emigrate to the Land of Israel. In 1845, with the blessing of her brother-in-law, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn, she and her family emigrated to Hebron. To allay her fears of rainstorms on the journey to Hebron, Rabbi Schneersohn blessed her to "walk between the raindrops."

Life in Hebron
For forty-three years she served as the matriarch of the Hebron community. New brides and barren women would request blessings from her. Before she died on the 24th of Shevat, 5648 AM (6 February 1888), she sent a letter to the then Rebbe, Rabbi Sholom Dovber Schneersohn, informing him of her imminent passing. She thus lived during the leadership of all of the first five Lubavitcher Rebbes.She became renowned among both townspeople and beyond, Jews and non-Jews alike for her curative and salvation abilities, and was nicknamed "the grandmother Menucha Rachel". Every bride who visited the Tomb of Machpela on the day of her wedding came to get her blessing and the Admor Rebbe Elazar Mendel of Lelov used to visit her home three times a week when staying in Hebron. He was strict about standing when she entered or left the room and always asked her to bless him.

Her family went on to become leaders of the Hebron Jewish community, helping unite the Sephardic and Ashkenazic Jewish communities and reaching out to the Arabic community. Her son was Rabbi Yehuda Leib Slonim, who was the father of Rebbetzin Moshke Devora Epstein, who inherited Menucha Rochel's home when she got married. Other children included Rabbi Mordechai Dov Slonim.
Rabbi Yaakov Yosef Slonim was the chief Ashkenazi rabbi during the 1929 Hebron massacre. His son was Eliezer Dan Slonim, who spoke fluent Arabic and was a member on the city council and a director of the Anglo-Palestine Bank. He had excellent relations with the British Mandate authorities and Arab community and was reported to have not believed in rumors of an impending riot. He and his family were slaughtered as they attempted to make a barricade in the Slonim family house. One-year-old Shlomo Slonim (1928-2014) survived the massacre. He was the grandson of Rabbi Yaakov Yosef Slonim and son of Eliezer Dan Slonim. Shlomo Slonim went on to join the Irgun Tzvai Leumi, the Haganah, and the Israel Defense Forces. He worked for Bank Leumi for almost 50 years, was married for 50 years, and had 4 children. His photo as a wounded toddler is included in the Museum of the Jewish Community of Hebron  as are many photos of the Slonim family.

Annual visits to grave in Hebron
Today, the grave of Menucha Rochel Slonim receives hundreds of visitors every year, especially on the anniversary of her passing. It is located in the Old Jewish cemetery, Hebron. The grave made headlines in 1997, when the H1 and H2 sections of the city were created. Concerned residents and supporters protested the government to ensure that the cemetery and Menucha Rochel's final resting place were not left outside of the designated area. Other venerated Jewish scholars buried in the cemetery include Eliyahu de Vidas, Solomon Adeni, Elijah Mizrachi and Yehuda Bibas.
Today, the local Chabad chapter in Hebron leads visits to her grave and continues her legacy. In 2002 The Menucha Rochel Kollel, a learning center moved to a historic building adjacent to the grave of Menucha Rochel in the cemetery. Daily classes and services are held there.
Passage 6:
Gillardeau oysters
Gillardeau oysters are a brand of edible oysters that are produced by the Gillardeau family and their small private company, which was founded in 1898 in Bourcefranc-le-Chapus near La Rochelle and the Île d'Oléron in western France.Gillardeau now produces roughly half its oysters in Normandy, near Utah Beach, and half in County Cork, Ireland, He also gets his oysters from P. Sugrue one of the worlds top growers from Kerry Ireland  where the waters are cleaner, there are fewer parasites and less agricultural runoff, and the area is easier to farm with tractors.
Passage 7:
Daddy's Home 2
Daddy's Home 2 (titled on screen as Daddy's Home Two)  is a 2017 American Christmas buddy comedy film directed by Sean Anders and written by Anders and John Morris. A sequel to Daddy's Home (2015), it stars Will Ferrell, Mark Wahlberg, Linda Cardellini, John Cena, with John Lithgow and Mel Gibson. The plot follows now-reformed fathers Brad and Dusty (Ferrell and Wahlberg), now co-parenting Dusty's kids, who have to deal with their own fathers (Lithgow and Gibson) visiting for the holidays.
Unlike its predecessor, Red Granite Pictures was not involved in the film's production. Principal photography on the film began in Massachusetts in March 2017 and it was released in the United States by Paramount Pictures on November 10, 2017. Although the film received generally negative reviews from critics, it grossed over $180 million worldwide against a production budget of $69–70 million.

Plot
Finally friends, Brad Whitaker and Dusty Mayron co-parent Dusty's two children, Megan and Dylan, who take turns at each father's house. Dusty has remarried to Karen, a doctor/novelist, and is a stepfather to her daughter Adrianna. The men decide to have a joint Christmas rather than separate ones, after Megan embarrassingly admits during a school recital, that she does not like Christmas anymore due to the stress and embarrassment caused by the dual arrangement. She'd prefer one "together Christmas".
Dusty's tough fighter pilot/Space Shuttle astronaut father Kurt and Brad's overbearing and cheerful father, Don, unexpectedly arrive for Christmas. Megan and Dylan warmly embrace Don, as he is very present in their lives, while Kurt hasn't seen them since they were toddlers. From his envy of the affection the children show Don, Kurt rents a large cabin through Airbnb, to house them all through the holiday week.
Brad and Dusty's co-parenting is put to the test by Kurt's meddling. Dusty’s beef with Kurt mainly stems from the fact that he was rarely there for him as a child. Especially painful was when, during a youth Glee Club recital he embarrassed himself by missing his solo part when Kurt left to make out with a woman during his part. Sara, meanwhile, tries to bond with Karen, but is appalled by her shoplifting clothes from a store and not caring if Adriana and Megan drink alcoholic eggnog. She later becomes concerned Don isn’t with his wife, whom he claims couldn’t come as she was staying home to take care of her ill brother.
Dylan develops a crush on a little girl staying in the cabin next door, causing Megan and Adrianna to constantly tease him in front of her. Brad gives him some “advice", and Dusty interjects when he thinks Brad is having what looks like “the talk” with Dylan, although they had agreed to do it together. As the trees on the Christmas tree farm are small, Kurt suggests they illegally go on to private property to cut one down. Brad mistakes a cell tower for a tree and is electrocuted.
After bowling, the family takes the kids to see Santa. There, Kurt tries to convince Dylan to ask Santa for a shotgun, but Don talks him out of it. Megan, however, wants one instead and is granted permission after Kurt makes a sexist comment. Out hunting the next day, Megan accidentally shoots Kurt in the shoulder, sending him to the hospital. While Kurt is down, she shoots two turkeys, surprising him. Sara confronts Brad over Don’s odd behavior, but he refuses to believe her.
Brad, Dusty, Don and Kurt go to an improv comedy club, where they have a good time until Kurt picking up a woman at the bar annoys Dusty. Brad enters Don into the improv show, and Dusty chooses the topic of a husband confronting his cheating wife as the subject of the skit. As it progresses, it is revealed that Don has separated from his wife in real life. Sara comforts Don about his divorce in front of an eggnog bowl, but when Dusty reveals his part in the skit, Don and Brad become furious and Dusty and Brad's relationship becomes strained. When they leave, Megan and Adrianna sneak cups of alcoholic eggnog. Brad, attempting to get back at Dusty, invites Adrianna's father, Roger. Roger intimidates Dusty as he had done to Brad in the first film.
The entire family takes part in a live nativity. Brad fights with Dusty because he wants to play Joseph. A drunken Megan begins to swear, and an equally drunk Adrianna falls from her platform, then the crowd breaks up. Instead of Dusty fighting Brad, he almost fights Roger, and Don is repeatedly hit in the face with ice-balls.
On Christmas Day the families, depressed from all the arguing, pack up to leave. On their way out of town, they are forced back due to a blizzard, taking shelter at a movie theater. They see Missile Tow, a holiday action comedy film starring Liam Neeson. When the power cuts off during the movie, everyone goes to the lobby where each man confronts his father about his secrets, lies, and attitudes, and reconcile.
Remembering advice given to him by Kurt, Dylan walks toward the girl he has a crush on to kiss her, but instead kisses Adrianna. Kurt pushes Dusty to stand up to Adrianna and punish her for her recent behavior, but he instead tells her he loves her. He then tells Roger that loving Adrianna means loving her real father as well as he is also part of the family. Roger almost leaves without Adrianna. However, he has a change of heart after everyone breaks out into a song of "Do They Know It's Christmas?" (during which the power comes back on) and he decides to stay.
Sometime later, at the airport, Don and Kurt are preparing to head back to their respective homes. Adrianna, who has grown close with Don, reveals she signed him up for a dating app for seniors so he can move on from Brad’s mother. Kurt and Don go up the terminal escalators, where Kurt reveals to Don that he switched out the tickets and they are going to spend New Year's together in Las Vegas to find dates more effectively.
As Brad's mother arrives, Dusty and Brad discover Brad's new stepfather is Sully Sullenberger, pilot of the 2009 "Miracle on the Hudson" flight. They remember watching the film Sully together recently, and Dusty appears to be excited to meet him. However, an infuriated Brad runs down the terminal, screaming that Sully will never replace his father and "You only have one good story, my father has a million".

Cast
Production
In April 2016, the sequel was announced, with Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg reprising their roles, Sean Anders and John Morris writing the script, and Anders directing. In January 2017, it was reported that Mel Gibson and John Lithgow were being sought to play the main characters' fathers in the film. The two were later confirmed to star, along with Linda Cardellini, John Cena, Owen Vaccaro and Scarlett Estevez, reprising their roles.Principal photography began on March 20, 2017. Scenes were filmed in Concord, Massachusetts, Clinton, Massachusetts, Framingham, Massachusetts, Lawrence, Massachusetts and Great Barrington, Massachusetts.

Release
The film was released in the United States on November 10, 2017.Daddy's Home 2 was released on Digital HD on February 6, 2018, and was released on Blu-ray and DVD on February 20, 2018.

Reception
Box office
Daddy's Home 2 grossed $104 million in the United States and Canada, and $76.6 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $180.6 million, against a production budget of  $69–70 million.In the United States and Canada, Daddy's Home 2 opened alongside Murder on the Orient Express, and was projected to gross around $20 million from 3,575 theaters in its opening weekend. The film made $10.7 million on its first day, including $1.5 million from Thursday night previews at 2,500 theaters, up from the $1.2 million made by the first film. It went on to debut to $29.7 million, finishing second at the box office, behind holdover Thor: Ragnarok ($57 million). In its second weekend, the film made $14.4 million (a drop of 51.3%), finishing 4th behind Justice League, Wonder and Thor: Ragnarok.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, Daddy's Home 2 holds an approval rating of 21% based on 129 reviews, and an average rating of 4.1/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "A formulaic comedy that's unlikely to spread much yuletide merriment, Daddy's Home 2 can only muster a few stray yuks from its talented cast." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 30 out of 100 based on 26 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A−" on an A+ to F scale.Alonso Duralde of TheWrap was critical of what he described as the film's sloppiness and laziness, saying, "Director Sean Anders and his co-writer John Morris execute what are supposed to be the laughs with blunt force. The jokes announce themselves with heavy footsteps, and almost none of them land, stranding a talented cast with terrible material that they’re straining to sell." Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film 1 out of 4 stars, saying: "After enduring last week’s lousy and lazy A Bad Moms Christmas, I would have bet it would be many a year before we’d see another holiday comedy more sour and cynical and profoundly unfunny. I sit corrected."Glenn Kenny of RogerEbert.com gave the film 2.5 out of 4 stars, writing, "I found the sequel better than the original—the writing sharper, the jokes fresher and smarter, the comic interaction between the lead characters consistently engaging. I mentioned this to my incredulous wife, who said, 'So you’re saying it's the Godfather, Part 2 of the Daddy’s Home series'."

Accolades
Possible sequel
In an interview, Mark Wahlberg mentioned that they would like to get Liam Neeson for the third installment of the film.

See also
List of Christmas films
Passage 8:
Jean Duvignaud
Jean Duvignaud (22 February 1921 – 17 February 2007) was a French novelist, sociologist and anthropologist. He was born in La Rochelle, Charente-Maritime, on February 22, 1921.
Duvignaud was a secondary school teacher first at Abbeville, then at Étampes (1947–1956), where he taught Georges Perec. After submitting his doctoral thesis, he taught at the University of Tours. In 1972, he founded the magazine Cause commune with Georges Perec and Paul Virilio. For a time he was in a relationship with Clara Malraux, the ex-wife of novelist André Malraux.He died (aged 85) in La Rochelle on February 17, 2007.

Bibliography
L'Acteur, esquisse d'une sociologie du comédien, Paris, Gallimard, 1965. Rééd. L'Archipel, 1995
Durkheim, sa vie, son œuvre, Paris, PUF, 1965
Visites d'Atelier Marta Pan, Cimaise, N.87, Juin Spetembre 1968
Sociologie du théâtre, Paris, PUF, 1965. Rééd. Quadrige, 1999
Georges Gurvitch, symbolisme social et sociologie dynamique, Paris, Seghers, 1969
Anthologie des sociologues français contemporains, Paris, PUF, 1970
Spectacle et société, Paris, Denoël, 1970
Introduction à la sociologie, Paris, Gallimard, 1971
Sociologie de l'art, Paris, PUF, 1972
L'Anomie, hérésie et subversion, Paris, Anthropos, 1973
Le Langage perdu, essai sur la différence anthropologique, Paris, PUF, 1973
Fêtes et civilisations, Paris, Weber, 1974
Le Théâtre contemporain, culture et contre-culture, Paris, Larousse, 1974
Le Ça perché, Paris, Stock, 1976
Le Don du rien, essai d'anthropologie de la fête, Paris, Plon, 1977
Le Jeu du jeu, Paris, Balland, 1980
L' Or de la République, Paris, Gallimard, 1984
Le Propre de l'homme, histoires du comique et de la dérision, Paris, Hachette, 1985
La Solidarité, liens de sang et liens de raison, Paris, Fayard, 1986
Chebika, étude sociologique, Paris, Gallimard, 1978. Rééd. Paris, Plon, 1990
La Genèse des passions dans la vie sociale, Paris, PUF, 1990
Dis l'Empereur, qu'as-tu fait de l'oiseau ?, Arles, Actes Sud, 1991
Fêtes et civilisations ; suivi de La fête aujourd'hui, Arles, Actes Sud, 1991
Perec ou La cicatrice, Arles, Actes Sud, 1993
Le singe patriote. Talma, un portrait imaginaire (novel), Arles, Actes Sud, 1993
L'oubli ou La chute des corps, Arles, Actes Sud, 1995
Le pandémonium du présent, idées sages, idées folles, Paris, Plon, 1998
Le prix des choses sans prix, Arles, Actes Sud, 2001
Les octos, béant aux choses futures, Arles, Actes Sud, 2003
Le sous-texte, Arles, Actes Sud, 2005
La ruse de vivre, état des lieux, Arles, Actes Sud, 2006
Passage 9:
Julien Berger
Julien Berger is a Belgian rugby union player who currently plays for his national side and the French club La Rochelle as a scrum-half. He has played for La Rochelle since 2009 and has played 14 games, but had only started in 5 (during the 2011–12 season).
Passage 10:
Peter Conrad (sociologist)
Peter Conrad (born 1945, raised in New Rochelle, NY) is an American medical sociologist who has researched and published on numerous topics including ADHD, the medicalization of deviance, the experience of illness, wellness in the workplace, genetics in the news, and biomedical enhancements.

Biography
He has been a member of the faculty at Brandeis University since 1979 and since 1993 has been the Harry Coplan Professor of Social Sciences.  He received his B.A. in Sociology at State University of New York at Buffalo (1967), M.A, from Northeastern University (1970) and Ph.D. in Sociology from Boston University in 1976.  Prior to Brandeis, he taught at Suffolk University in Boston, Massachusetts (1971–75) and Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa (1975–78).  At Brandeis he served as chair of the Department of Sociology for nine years and since 2002 as chair of the interdisciplinary program "Health:  Science, Society and Policy" (HSSP).   He has also been a visiting professor at New York University, Gadjah Mada University (Yogyakarta, Indonesia), University of London, Royal Holloway, and Queen's University Belfast (Northern Ireland).

Personal life
He lives in Lincoln, MA with his wife, Dr. Libby Bradshaw.  They have two children, Rya (b. 1980) and Jared (b. 1985).

Published works
Conrad is the author of over one hundred articles and chapters and a dozen books, including Identifying Hyperactive Children:  The Medicalization of Deviant Behavior (1975, 2004),  Deviance and Medicalization:  From Badness to Sickness (with Joseph W. Schneider, 1980, 1992), Having Epilepsy:  The Experience and Control of Illness (1983) and The Medicalization of Society:  On the Transformation of Human Conditions into Treatable Disorders (2007).  He has also edited or co-edited numerous volumes, including Handbook of Medical Sociology, 5th edition (2000) and eight editions of Sociology of Health and Illness:  Critical Perspectives (1981–2009), a widely used text for undergraduates.

Awards
He has received numerous academic honors including the Charles Horton Cooley Award (1981) for Deviance and Medicalization, a Distinguished Fulbright Fellowship (1997), the Leo G. Reeder Award (2004) from the American Sociological Association for "distinguished contributions to medical sociology", and the Lee Founder's Award (2007) "made in recognition of significant achievements that, over a distinguished career, have demonstrated continuing devotion to the ideals of the founders of the Society for the Study of Social Problems and especially to the humanist tradition of Alfred McClung Lee and Elizabeth Briant Lee."
Passage 11:
Shelly Steely
Anne Rochelle Steely Ramirez (born October 23, 1962), née Anne Rochelle Steely, is a former long-distance runner who competed internationally for the United States.  She specialized in the 3,000 meters on the track and later competed in road running events.
She made her international debut in cross country and helped the United States the women's team title at the IAAF World Cross Country Championships in 1985.  Her focus changed to the 3,000 meters, a distance in which she was a two-time US champion (outdoors in 1991 and indoors in 1992). She reached the final of that event at the 1991 World Championships in Athletics and the 1992 Barcelona Olympics.
Steely's performances deteriorated and she was diagnosed with hyperthyroidism. However, she made an athletic comeback in 1998 and she won two national road titles, as well as appearing at the Goodwill Games and IAAF World Half Marathon Championships that year. She made one more appearance at the World Half Marathon event in 2000, but retired to focus on education studies.

Career
Early life and college career
Steely was born in Reading, Pennsylvania, and attended Bishop Conwell High School in Levittown, Pennsylvania.  She received an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida, where she ran for the Florida Gators track and field team in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) competition. Steely was fifth in the 10,000 meters at the NCAA Outdoors in 1983, but found greater success over shorter distances the following year: she won both the 5000 meters and 3000 meters Southeastern Conference (SEC) titles. She was third in the 3,000 meters at the 1984 NCAA Outdoors and made two podium finishes at the USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships (third over 5,000 meters, second over 3,000 meters). She also reached the semi-finals of the US Olympic Track and Field Trials that year.In her final year at Florida, she took a sweep of the SEC long-distance titles, winning the 3,000, 5,000 and 10,000-meter distance races.  During her time as a Gator runner, she won five All-American honors and nine All-SEC honors, and was later inducted into the University of Florida Athletic Hall of Fame as a "Gator Great" in 2006.Steely made her international debut for the United States in 1985, and her fifteenth-place finish at the 1985 IAAF World Cross Country Championships helped the American women (including Cathy Branta and Betty Springs) to the long race team title. She made two more appearances at that competition, taking part in the 1989 and 1990 editions. She also competed on the international cross country circuit in Europe, including a win at the Cross Internacional de Venta de Baños.

World and Olympic competition
She began training in New Mexico and improved her best times in the 3,000 and 5,000 meters in 1990, and was ranked highly at the national level. She began to expand her oeuvre to include road running and that year she took wins at the Cooper River Bridge Run and Great Cow Harbor 10K races, as well as shorter distance wins at the Fifth Season Race and the Jean Bouin Memorial in Spain. The following year saw her make a career breakthrough on the track. She won the national title in the 3,000 meters with a significant personal best run of 8:49.00 minutes. This gained her a place on the national team for the 1991 World Championships in Athletics. Steely ran a personal record of 8:48.54 minutes in the qualifying rounds, only finishing behind two eventual medalists (Susan Sirma and Yelena Romanova). She did not perform as well in the final, however, and ended the competition in fourteenth place. She ended her season with road wins at the Phoenix 10K and Senior Bowl 10K.She claimed her second national title at the start of the following year, winning the 3,000 meters at the USA Indoor Track and Field Championships with a time of 8:51.29 minutes. A third title followed on the roads that May as she took the 5,000 meters U.S. title in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. In the outdoor season she ran a career best time of 8:41.28 minutes for the 3,000 meters and her runner-up placing at the Olympic Trials saw her make the US Olympic Team for the first time. At the 1992 Barcelona Olympics, both Steely and PattiSue Plumer (the trials winner) made the event final and Steely came seventh, two spots behind her compatriot.

Switch to roads and retirement
She won the Carlsbad 5000 the following March. Steely was the 1993 USA Outdoor runner-up in the 3,000 meters but was replaced in the national team for the 1993 World Championships in Athletics. Her performances waned over the next three years and she did not compete at all in 1996. She was later diagnosed with a hyperthyroid condition.Steely returned to compete in 1998 and ran frequently, mainly out of necessity as she no longer had a sponsor. She was in the top three at the 1998 USA Outdoors in the 10,000 meters, came fourth in the event at the 1998 Goodwill Games, and ranked second nationally in the distance that year. She won the US titles in the 25-kilometer and 10-mile events that year, as well as runner-up placing in the national 12-kilometer and half marathon events. Her performance over the latter distance gained her a spot at the 1998 IAAF World Half Marathon Championships, where she placed 42nd overall.She ran in the 10,000 meters at the 1999 USA Outdoor Championships (coming fifth) and competed at the 2000 IAAF World Half Marathon Championships. However, she moved on from her athletic career to focus on obtaining an Educational specialist degree.

Personal bests
1500 m – 4:05.07 mins (1992)
3000 m – 8:41.28 mins (1992)
5000 m – 15:08.67 mins (1992)
10,000 m – 32:41.14 mins (1990)
Half marathon – 1:13:33 hrs (1998)

International competition record
See also
Florida Gators
List of University of Florida alumni
List of University of Florida Athletic Hall of Fame members
List of University of Florida Olympians
Passage 12:
La Jarne
La Jarne (French pronunciation: ​[la ʒaʁn]) is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in southwestern France. It is 7 km southeast of the city of La Rochelle.

Population
See also
Communes of the Charente-Maritime department
Passage 13:
June Rochelle
June Rochelle is an American contemporary gospel singer, songwriter, executive media producer, editor, and talent scout from Indianapolis, Indiana. Her music infuses gospel, soul, pop, r&b, and jazz. Her debut album, Changing Places, garnered a Grammy ballot. Her next albums are Play This, and June Rochelle Christmas ' Rochelle is the first African-American to headline ABC's-RTV6 Circle of Lights. She was previously a backing vocalist for Diana Ross and Celine Dion. June Rochelle is also the founder of Good Deeds People a public-benefit charity and June Rochelle Media.
Passage 14:
Jean-Louis Raduit de Souches
Jean-Louis Raduit de Souches (16 August 1608 to 12 August 1682), also known as Ludwig de Souches, was a French-born professional soldier who spent a number of years in the Swedish Army before switching to Imperial service in 1642. Although he was a capable officer who reached the rank of Field Marshal, his career was marred by a tendency to quarrel with his colleagues and superiors.
Born into a family of minor French Protestant nobility, de Souches went into exile after the Siege of La Rochelle in 1629. He served in the Swedish army when it entered the Thirty Years' War against Emperor Ferdinand III and by 1642 was colonel of an infantry regiment. However, he fell out with his superior officer and switched sides, joining the Imperial army.
He established his reputation in the defence of Brno against the Swedes in 1645 and was promoted Field Marshal in 1664. When Emperor Leopold joined the Franco-Dutch War in 1673, de Souches was appointed commander of Imperial forces in the Low Countries but had a poor relationship with his Dutch and Spanish allies and was removed in December 1674. 
This was the end of his military career; he retired to his estates in at Jevišovice in Moravia, where he died on 12 August 1682 and was buried in the Church of St. James (Brno).

Personal details
Jean-Louis Raduit de Souches was born on 16 August 1608, son of Jean Ratuit, Sieur de Barres (died 1614), and his wife Marguerite de Bourdigalea (died after 1636). Both parents were members of the Huguenot nobility, originally from Aunis, who owned property in the Protestant stronghold of La Rochelle. His elder brother was killed serving with the French army in 1636, while he also had a sister, Marguerite (died 1654).His first wife Anna Elisabeth de Hoffkirchen died in 1663; they had two sons, Jean Louis (died 1717) and Charles Louis (1645–1691), who both served in the Imperial Army, and two daughters, Anna Dorotha (1652–1724) and Eleonora. Anna Salome Aspermont-Reckheim (1648–1729) became his second wife in 1677; they had no surviving children.

Career
Thirty Years War
Souches began his military career during the siege of La Rochelle, part of the 1627 to 1629 Huguenot rebellions against Louis XIII of France. When the town surrendered in October 1628, he went into exile in Protestant Sweden, where he joined the army led by Gustavus Adolphus which entered the Thirty Years War in 1630. By 1636, he was captain in an infantry regiment which unsuccessfully defended Stargard against an Imperial force; he narrowly escaped court martial after accusing his commanding officer of negligence. This was symptomatic of a quarrelsome tendency which followed him throughout his career.

In May 1636, France formally entered the Thirty Years War in alliance with Sweden; the rapid expansion of the French army created vacancies for experienced officers and de Souches used the opportunity to return home. He was unable to obtain a satisfactory position and returned to Sweden in August 1639, where he was promoted colonel of a regiment in the force that invaded Bohemia in early 1640. However, he later fell out with his superior officer whom he challenged to a duel in violation of military regulations; he resigned from the Swedish army in early 1642 and a few months later was appointed colonel in the Imperial army.Over the next two years, de Souches took part in the 1643 invasion of Pomerania and an attack on the Swedish-held city of Olomouc in Moravia. Although both actions were unsuccessful, he impressed his superiors sufficiently to be given command of defending Brno in May 1645 against a force led by Lennart Torstensson; after a siege described as "one of the epic stands of the Imperial army", the Swedes retreated in August having lost 8,000 men. This contributed to the failure of Torstensson's attempt to attack Vienna and helped speed up peace negotiations at Westphalia. Until the end of the war, de Souches contributed to regaining Swedish-occupied cities in the Erblande like the capture of Jihlava in 1647.De Souches was rewarded with promotion to the rank of general and granted lands outside Brno; when the war finally ended in 1648, he was placed in charge of supervising the withdrawal of Swedish troops from Moravia and made Governor of Špilberk Castle. In 1649, he was elevated to the Moravian nobility on condition he converted to Catholicism within the next three years.

Later career
In 1654, Sweden attacked the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, initiating the Second Northern War. When the fighting expanded to include Brandenburg-Prussia in 1657, Austria joined the anti-Swedish coalition. With de Souches in charge of the infantry, an army under Melchior von Hatzfeldt was sent to support Poland and helped recapture Kraków in August 1657. De Souches later commanded the Austrian contingent at the Siege of Toruń, whose Swedish garrison surrendered in December 1658. In 1659, he was given command of an army of 13,000 which invaded Swedish Pomerania and besieged Stettin; before the town fell, the Treaty of Oliva ended the war in May 1660, while de Souches quarrelled with his colleague Raimondo Montecuccoli and was ordered home to Moravia.The 1663 to 1664 Austro-Turkish War began when Ottoman forces invaded Hungary and over-ran large parts of eastern and southern Moravia. Having successfully defended Brno and Olomouc, de Souches was promoted Field Marshall in May 1664 and given command of one of three separate forces operating in Hungary, with the other two led by Montecuccoli and Miklós Zrínyi. Although he won a minor victory at Levice in July 1664, while Montecuccoli stopped the main Ottoman advance at Saint Gotthard in August, Leopold was concerned by the expansionist policies of Louis XIV of France and agreed the Peace of Vasvár a few days later.
          
In October 1664, de Souches was appointed Governor of Komárom, an important town on the modern Slovakian/Hungarian border, and spent the next few years supervising the construction of new fortifications there, as well as other towns in the region. He also became a member of the Hofkriegsrat, or Imperial War Council, although his duties were largely nominal. When Austria entered the Franco-Dutch War in 1673 as an ally of the Dutch Republic and Spain, he was appointed commander of Imperial troops in the Low Countries and took part in the Battle of Seneffe in August 1674. The Imperial troops suffered minimal casualties in what was the bloodiest battle of the war and his Allies subsequently claimed de Souches had ignored requests for support. One suggestion is he did so under instructions from Emperor Leopold, who wanted to conserve resources for the Rhineland campaign, which he viewed as having far greater strategic significance.Shortly thereafter, the Allies attacked the town of Oudenarde; siege operations commenced on 16 September, and the French began marching to its relief three days later. The Dutch and Spanish redoubled efforts to breach the walls before their arrival, but without advising his colleagues, de Souches withdrew the Imperial artillery to Ghent. Since his troops would not fight without their guns, and the Dutch and Spanish could not face the French on their own, the Allies were forced to abandon the siege. After strong protests from the Dutch States General, supported by some of his Austrian colleagues, de Souches was relieved of his command. In December 1674, Emperor Leopold set up an enquiry into his conduct, which resulted in de Souches being dismissed from his remaining military positions. He retired to his estates at Jevišovice in Moravia, where he died on 12 August 1682 and was buried in the Church of St. James (Brno).
Passage 15:
Chaya Mushka Schneersohn
Chaya Mushka Schneersohn was the daughter of Rabbi Dovber Schneuri, the second Rebbe of the Chabad Hasidic movement, and the wife of Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn the third Rebbe.Chaya Mushka Schneerson died on December 9, 1860 O.S. (Tevet 8, 5621; December 21, 1860 N.S.), and was buried in the town of Lubavitch near her grandmother Rebbetzin Sterna and her mother Rebbetzin Sheina.

History
Chaya Mushka Schneersohn married the third Rebbe of Chabad, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn. She is known in the Chabad community as "Rebbetzin Chaya Mushka." Rebbetzin Chaya Mushka was an advocate for Agunot, women who are bound to their marriages by Jewish law whether through the husband's disappearance or refusal to comply with divorce proceedings.Chaya Mushka held the personal custom of reciting the Slichot prayers during the week between Rosh Hashana, the Jewish New Year, and Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement.
Passage 16:
Hunt Slonem
Hunt Slonem (born Hunt Slonim, July 18, 1951) is an American painter, sculptor, and printmaker. He is best known for his Neo-Expressionist paintings of butterflies, bunnies, and his tropical birds, often based on a personal aviary in which he has been keeping from 30 to over 100 live birds of various species. Slonem's works are included in many important museum collections all over the world; he is exhibiting regularly at both public and private venues, and he has received numerous honors and awards.

Early life
Hunt Slonem was born in Kittery, Maine, in an upper middle class family, the eldest of four children. His father was a Navy officer, and mother – a homemaker who spent much of her time doing volunteer work. As a result of his father's military career, Slonem's family moved around as frequently as every two to three years. He lived in Hawaii, Virginia, Connecticut, California and Washington State. Slonem's grandmother was a Tennessee native who married a Minnesota-born amateur artist and educator who became the Superintendent of Public Schools in Duluth, Minnesota. It was Slonem's grandfather who always encouraged young Hunt to paint.  "I grew up around painting, and my parents dabbled in painting themselves. I was given paints as a child, and I wanted to be a painter from first grade onwards," Slonem told the online magazine Art Interview. His younger brother, Jeffrey Slonim, is a prolific journalist, and contributing editor of the Interview Magazine, and his cousin is the best-selling author Tama Janowitz.After completing school, which included living in Nicaragua as an exchange student when he was 16 years old, Slonem commenced undergraduate studies at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee. He then spent about six months of his sophomore year at the University of the Americas in San Andrés Cholula, Puebla, Mexico, but later graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Painting and Art History from Tulane University in New Orleans, Louisiana. He also took courses at the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine, where he was exposed to such influential artists from the New York area as Louise Nevelson, Alex Katz, Alice Neel, Richard Estes, Jack Levine, and Al Held. During that period, Slonem altered the "i" to an "e" in his family name as a nod to numerology. He moved to New York in 1973 to further his art practice, and Manhattan had become his consistent base ever since.

Career
I would say my whole life could be summed up by the word 'exotica'.
Hunt Slonem's artistic career began in New York, in the late 1970s. When he first came to Manhattan, in 1973, he was hired by the Department of Social Services to teach painting to senior citizens. He was unhappy at his job and seriously considered moving to Amsterdam when, unexpectedly, in 1975, he got a call from artist Janet Fish who offered him her studio for the summer. That telephone call turned Slonem's life around. Shortly afterwards, In 1976, Hunt Slonem received a painting grant from the Elizabeth Greenshields Foundation in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, and began painting in earnest. His first solo show was held at New York's Harold Reed Gallery in 1977, followed by a major exhibition at the prestigious Fischbach Gallery. As Slonem's career progressed, he was introduced to people like Andy Warhol, Liza Minnelli, Sylvia Miles, and Truman Capote. Through Jeffrey Slonim, who would later serve as an usher at Andy Warhol's funeral, he also met and befriended the Belgian-born actress Monique van Vooren, the star of Warhol's film Flesh for Frankenstein. He soon became a habitué of New York's trendiest hot spots and an active participant in the city's burgeoning art scene.Slonem's move to New York had a profound influence on his development as an artist. According to the New York Times, he fell in love with "a very particular kind of New York life, one most people can only fantasize about. But people this determinedly unusual do exist here, and that is one of the city's surest charms. They feed off the city and the city feeds off them." Novelist Tama Janowitz put it succinctly, saying, "His pictures are the subtext of Manhattan, an imaginary, vivid and grotesquely evocative world that bubbles beneath the paved-over, gray city of New York which he physically inhabits -- a city where people have come from all over the world, bringing their images of other places and other lives with them."Despite living in the heart of Manhattan,  Slonem remained true to his boyhood fascination with exotica, which he had developed as a youth in Hawaii and during his time as a foreign exchange student in Managua, Nicaragua. His paintings expressed a strong affinity for nature, especially the various species of exotic butterflies and tropical birds living on the island. He soon became well known for creating grisaille paintings of small birds in their cages.  He often painted them wet-on-wet and grit off the surfaces to denote wire enclosures after the birds had been strategically placed. Art critic Roberta Smith wrote in the New York Times that Slonem's "witty Formalism strategy meshes the creatures into the picture plane and sometimes nearly obliterates them as images, but it also suspends and shrouds them in a dim, atmospheric light that is quite beautiful. If Joseph Cornell had concentrated on painting, the results might have looked like this." Birds also fill the surface of his largest project yet – a 6-foot by 86 foot mural he painted for the iconic Bryant Park Grill Restaurant in New York City, completed in 1995. According to The New Yorker, "The most notable aspect of the [restaurant's] interior is an 86-foot long mural by the artist Hunt Slonem, which depicts hundreds of birds, similar to those found in the artist's studio, where he can be found painting away with a bird or two perched on his shoulders."Hunt Slonem's oil paintings pivot between the fantastic and the natural. These natural forms ultimately become the subjects for many of his artworks, appearing in large lavishly colored paintings and constructed sculptures. As an artist, he endeavors to explore the many expressive faculties of color. His paintings are layered with thick brushstrokes of vivid color, often cut into in a cross-hatched pattern that adds texture to the overall surface of the painting. Slonem often hides his subjects "behind a grid of incised lines, blurring their contours and emphasizing the paint's tactile quality." This surface patterning combines with the rich colors and recognizable subject matter to create paintings that are physically and aesthetically rich. Poet and critic John Ashbery observed, "From the narrow confines of his grids, half cage, half perch, Slonem summons dazzling explosions of the variable life around us that need only to be looked at in order to spring into being."Slonem's obsessive and repetitive rendering of his subjects reflects his desire to explore issues of spatial complexity, compression and density in what the acclaimed Metropolitan Museum of Art curator Henry Geldzahler deemed "a consistent investigation of post-cubist abstraction." The repetitive imagery also makes a reference to Andy Warhol. "I was influenced by Warhol's repetition of soup cans and Marilyn," says Slonem. "But I'm more interested in doing it in the sense of prayer, with repetition... It's really a form of worship." He is not interested in realism or, unlike Warhol, in advertising or media, and his paintings are neither narrative nor specific in detail. Rather, Slonem's work is deeply rooted in the act of painting. His jarring color choices, spontaneous mark making, and scratched hatch marks are the result of his ongoing fascination with the manipulation and implementation of paint. For Slonem, cross-hatching has "a feeling of a tapestry, it's like weaving. I'm making colors bleed into each other, I'm revealing the under-painting. I'm making these marks to allow the light to come through, basically. So you're seeing about five levels of paint, instead of one." It is this kind of devotion to the process of painting that prompted Henry Geldzahler to observe in 1993 that "Slonem is a painter, a painter's painter with an enormous bag of technical tricks which become apparent to the viewer the longer he stands before the work."Another recurring theme of Slonem's pictorial work is portrait painting, and that of Abraham Lincoln in particular. He is interested in history and memorabilia, and for him, the "larger-than-life" Lincoln is a catchall. In Slonem's words, "On Marilyn [Monroe]'s desk, she had a picture of her mother and a picture of Lincoln. And she said, 'I really didn't know who my father was, so it might as well be Abraham Lincoln.'" According to the Interview Magazine, "Slonem's portraits of Lincoln feel personal, and in surprising ways, he's close to the long-deceased." "I work with diviners and mystics, and one of them started channeling Lincoln in my house," says Slonem. "[Lincoln] guided me to paint certain things, like my doves: he wanted me to paint them as a symbol of freedom."In the early 1980s, Slonem began working on a new series of so-called "Rabbit paintings."  The idea for this critically acclaimed series came to him after he had discovered that the year of his birth, 1951, was the year of the Rabbit in the Chinese zodiac calendar. He often repeats imagery in this series, just like in his other series, because, he told the Wall Street Journal, the act is similar to spiritual meditation: "Mantras are holy because you repeat them." This theme continued to inspire Slonem over the years, and the series is as prominent in his work today as it was over thirty years ago.Apart from painting, Slonem is also making sculptures, like the sizable, "Tocos," an 18-foot acrylic and aluminum tower of toucans exhibited at the Polk Museum of Art in 2012. He has also restored several historic houses. "I consider it part of my art form,"  Slonem said in an interview with NewsChief.com.  His "art form" also includes Gothic revival furniture - in his homes, studios, and exhibits. In 2009, Bergdorf Goodman, a luxury department store in New York City, recreated Slonem's distinct art-filled living room for its windows display. In Slonem's view, "Art incorporated with furniture becomes a work of art itself."In 2008, German automaker Audi enlisted Hunt Slonem to create an exclusive design for its sleek new A5 coupe, and he created a one-of-a-kind design based on one of his oil painting for the car's exterior. "It's an earlier work of mine with birds flying through the sky; the original work is in the collection of the Colby Museum in Maine, where I was born," said Slonem of the piece, which is painted in blues, blacks, reds, and whites with cockatoos. The mobile artwork was unveiled in conjunction with the New York International Auto Show at the Audi Forum in Manhattan. The "Hunt Slonem Audi A5," as it was dubbed, then toured Audi dealerships throughout the United States, before returning to New York where it was auctioned off to benefit a cancer research charity.In 2010, Albert Maysles, the Oscar-nominated documentary filmmaker (Salesman, Gimme Shelter, Grey Gardens), announced that he will be shooting a feature-length documentary on Hunt Slonem's life and his art.In 2014, he collaborated with fashion accessories company Echo Design Group for a limited edition scarf and handbag collection.

Museum exhibitions and collections
Since 1977, Slonem had solo shows at many prestigious contemporary art galleries including the Fischbach Gallery in New York and the Serge Sorokko Gallery in San Francisco. His work has been exhibited globally, including in Madras, Quito, Venice, Gustavia, San Juan, Guatemala City, Paris, Amsterdam, Madrid, Stockholm, Oslo, Cologne, Tokyo, and Hong Kong. His work has been shown in thirty-one different museums including the Hunter Museum of American Art in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in 1981; the Museo Diocesano d'arte sacra Sant'Apollonia in Venice, Italy, in 1986; the Albany Museum of Art in Albany, Georgia, in 2007; the  Istanbul Museum of Modern Art in Istanbul, Turkey, in 2007; Museo de Arte de El Salvador in San Salvador, El Salvador, in 2010; the National Gallery for Foreign Art in Sofia, Bulgaria, in 2010;  the Alexandria Museum of Art in Alexandria, Louisiana in 2011, the Polk Museum of Art in Lakeland, Florida in 2012, the Moscow Museum of Modern Art in 2015, and the Russian State Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia in 2017, among others.Slonem has been an active participant in the Art in Embassies Program sponsored by the United States Department of State, alongside other American artists including Jim Dine, Julian Schnabel, Sol LeWitt, Jasper Johns, Ellsworth Kelly, and Jeff Koons, who received the first ever Medal of Arts from the Department of State for his "outstanding commitment" to the program. Through Art in Embassies, Slonem's paintings have been exhibited globally revealing, as Hillary Clinton put it, "the rich history and cultural heritage of the United States and the experiences that we share with peoples of different countries, backgrounds and faiths. Every exhibition reminds us of the diversity of mankind and the values that bind us together."Hunt Slonem's paintings are widely represented in important private collections all over the world. According to the San Francisco Chronicle, "Slonem's work has attracted many well-known [Hollywood] art collectors including Sharon Stone, Gina Gershon, Brooke Shields, Julianne Moore, Mandy Moore, Kate Hudson, and J.Lo", among others.  "I'm a big fan of Hunt's work," Brooke Shields told Daily Front Row. "It's whimsical without being too sweet."  A March 2012 issue of Architectural Digest features Shields's Manhattan townhouse, with three of Slonem's "rabbit paintings" prominently displayed on her living room wall.Over fifty museums internationally include Hunt Slonem's paintings in their collections, among them the Smithsonian American Art Museum; the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.; the Brooklyn Museum of Art in Brooklyn, NY; the Boston Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts; Fundació Joan Miró in Barcelona, Spain; the Würth Museum in Künzelsau, Germany; the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum all in New York.

Personal life
Until 2010, Slonem occupied a Tenth Street studio in Manhattan that was 40,000 square feet, divided into 89 rooms. In 2010, Slonem moved to a 15,000 square foot fourth floor former headquarters of the film company Moviola, on West 45th Street. The space served as his painting studio and was divided into a number of small rooms, all of which Slonem painted in old Louisiana plantation-house colors. The studio housed his ever-expanding quirky collections, from Neo-Gothic chairs to top hats, to marble busts of Marie Antoinette, to various objets d'art, mined from flea markets and antique fairs. In an interview in Vincent Katz's book Pleasure Palaces: The Art & Homes of Hunt Slonem, he describes his collecting technique as "cluttering."  For him, objects are "friends;" the more there are, the more he is inspired. "I have to have a certain amount of stuff in place before I can function and paint," he says. Although, Slonem still lives in the loft apartment he moved into in 1973, according to the Wall Street Journal, he does nearly all his entertaining at his new 25,000 square foot West 34th Street studio in the industrial Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan where he moved in 2011. He christened the third floor loft space with a birthday party attended by more than 200 people.Hunt Slonem also owns two historically important Louisiana plantations—one called Albania Plantation, on the Bayou Teche in St. Mary Parish, about two hours' drive northwest of New Orleans, and the other – the Lakeside Plantation, in a remote location near the town of Batchelor, one hour north of Baton Rouge. According to the New York Times, the Batchelor property includes "an 1832 plantation house called Lakeside, pink if you please, as surprising in this community of shoebox houses as an aged diva in a pink organdy dress at McDonald's. Also as indifferent, inasmuch as a house can be indifferent, to the bruising of time." It was once owned by Marquis de La Fayette whose close relationship with lifelong friends such as Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, James Monroe, John Adams, and Robert Livingston played a pivotal role in the Louisiana Purchase.  In a show of gratitude, the United States gave La Fayette land which is known today as Lakeside Plantation. The property is listed in the National Register of Historic Places listings in Louisiana.
Passage 17:
Sébastien Fauqué
Sébastien Fauqué is a French rugby union player, born 6 March 1977 in Tarbes (Hautes-Pyrénées), who plays as fly half for La Rochelle.
He arrived at US Montauban from US Dax after a spell at Castres Olympique and a first professional contract at Section Paloise. He was the backup for David Aucagne at Pau and Thomas Castaignède at Castres. He trained at two clubs: Riscle and Lourdes. After the 2008 season, and after six seasons at Montauban, he joined RC Toulon, who were promoted to Top 14.

Honours
Club
Pro D2 Champions : 2006

Personal
Best player of Pro D2: 2006 (383 points, 22 more than second placed Antoine Vignau-Tuquet)2nd : 2005 (397 points, 18 less than first place Martin Vickers-Pearson)
Best kicker in Pro D2: 2006 (353 points, 22 more than second placed Antoine Vigneau-Tuquet)2nd : 2005 (377 points, 3 less than first placed Martin Vickers-Pearson)

Notes
External links
(in French) Player profile at lequipe.fr
(in French) Statistics at itsrugby.fr
"Sébastien Fauqué". itsrugby.co.uk. Retrieved 13 November 2021.
Passage 18:
Gaston de Gerlache
Baron Gaston de Gerlache de Gomery (Brussels, 17 November 1919 – Oudenaarde, 13 July 2006) was a Belgian polar explorer.
Gaston de Gerlache was the son of Adrien de Gerlache, and followed in the tracks of his father by leading the second Belgian expedition to Antarctica in 1957–1958, 60 years after his father led the 1897–1899 Belgian Antarctic Expedition aboard the ship Belgica.
Gaston de Gerlache and his crew established the King Baudouin Base in 1958 in the context of the International Geophysical Year. On 11 December 1958 an aircraft with four Belgians, led by Gaston de Gerlache crashed in the Crystal Mountains, 250 km from King Baudouin Base, Antarctica. The crew was searched for and rescued on 16 December by the Soviet polar pilot V. M. Perov on an Li-2 aircraft, that had taken off from Mirny Station.In 1960 Gaston de Gerlache published his travel journal Retour dans l'antarctique. A year later he made a documentary about his expedition named Plein sud.
An article, "Belgium in the Antarctic", written by Gaston de Gerlache de Gomery appeared in the Geographical magazine (May 1962 issue).
Mount Gaston de Gerlache in the Queen Fabiola Mountains on Antarctica was named after him.
Passage 19:
Marvin Felix Camillo
Marvin Felix Camillo (1937 in Newark, New Jersey – January 22, 1988 in La Rochelle, France) was an American theater director and actor, noted for his founding of The Family theater company, a group in New York largely made up of ex-convicts.

Stage productions
Short Eyes (1974)
The Cool World (1960)