Passage 1:
Grown Ups (film)
Grown Ups is a 2010 American comedy film directed by Dennis Dugan, written by Adam Sandler and Fred Wolf, produced by Sandler and Jack Giarraputo, and starring Sandler, Kevin James, Chris Rock, David Spade, Rob Schneider, Salma Hayek, Maria Bello, and Maya Rudolph. The film tells a story of five lifelong friends who won their junior high school basketball championship in 1978. They reunite three decades later for a 4th of July weekend after learning about the sudden death of their basketball coach.
Produced by Sandler's Happy Madison Productions in association with Relativity Media, Grown Ups was released in the United States on June 25, 2010, by Columbia Pictures. Despite receiving unfavorable reviews from critics, it grossed $272 million and led to a sequel, Grown Ups 2, in 2013.

Plot
In 1978, childhood friends Lenny Feder, Eric Lamonsoff, Kurt McKenzie, Marcus Higgins, and Rob Hilliard win their junior high basketball championship. They celebrate at a lake house with their coach Robert "Buzzer" Ferdinando.
Thirty years later in 2008, Lenny is a wealthy and successful Hollywood talent agent, married to fashion designer Roxanne and has three children: Greg, Keith, and Becky. Eric claims to co-own a lawn furniture company and has two children: Donna and Bean; his wife Sally still breastfeeds Bean. Kurt is a stay-at-home father, and has two children: Andre and Charlotte, his wife Deanne is pregnant with their third child, and her mother Ronzoni lives with them. Marcus is a slacker and lothario. Rob is married to his much older fourth wife Gloria.
When Buzzer dies, the five friends reunite for his funeral in their hometown with their families. Lenny rents the Earnshaw family's lake house for everyone to stay over Fourth of July weekend, though his family is leaving early to attend Roxanne's fashion show in Milan. He pushes his boys to play outside and runs into his childhood opponent Dickie, who claims Lenny's foot was out of bounds when he made the winning shot.
As the friends spread Buzzer's ashes, Rob breaks down over his failed marriages and reveals that he has invited his estranged daughters Jasmine, Amber, and Bridget to visit. The men play “arrow roulette”, shooting an arrow straight into the air, and Rob wins by not running for cover, but the arrow impales his left foot, causing him to 'snap' at Gloria from the pain. 
Lenny is thrilled to find the kids playing with cup-and-string telephones. Realizing the positive impact the weekend is having on their children, Roxanne tells Lenny to cancel their Milan trip and stay at the lake instead.
Everyone visits Water Wizz where Marcus flirts with Jasmine and Amber after buying them skimpy bikinis, and Eric teaches Bean to drink cow's milk. The families cause chaos throughout the park: the wives attract a bodybuilder, then jeer at his high-pitched Canadian accent; Rob assaults a slide attendant when he insults Bridget, and Eric ignores Donna's warning about a chemical in the pool that turns urine blue. At the zipline attraction, Lenny's group meets up with Dickie, accompanied by his former teammates. One of them, Wiley, is severely injured after crashing into a shed while sliding down the zipline using his feet.
The next day, Rob attacks Marcus, mistakenly believing that he slept with Jasmine, and Marcus admits to feeling insecure compared to his happily married friends. Everyone comes clean about the state of their lives: Roxanne confronts Lenny for canceling their flight to Milan before they left home, and he explains he wanted their family to have a normal vacation and to rein in his children's respectful attitudes; Deanne confronts Kurt for spending time with the Feders' nanny Rita, but Kurt retaliates by pointing out how she under-appreciates him; Eric reveals that he was laid off from his job, and was showing off the whole time so the others wouldn't humiliate him; Rob admits what everybody already knows – that he wears a toupee. Gloria helps everyone reconcile, and Lenny and Kurt offer to help Eric start a new business.
On their last day at the lake house, Lenny and his friends agree to a rematch against Dickie, Robideaux, Muzby, Tardio, and Malcolm. The game culminates in Lenny and Greg facing Dickie and his son, but Lenny misses the game-deciding shot. As the families watch the Fourth of July fireworks, Lenny tells Roxanne that he let Dickie's family win to get him off his case, and felt that his own family needed to know what losing feels like. A drunken Marcus plays another game of arrow roulette, and the crowd flees in panic. Trapped in a full-body cast, Wiley is struck in the foot by the arrow.

Cast
Production
Sandler, Rock, Schneider, and Spade met when they all joined the cast of Saturday Night Live in the 1990–1991 season; supporting cast members Colin Quinn, Rudolph, Tim Meadows, and Norm Macdonald have also been SNL cast members.
Filming commenced in Essex County, Massachusetts, in August 2009. Chebacco Lake was used to portray the fictional Amoskeag Lake where the Earnshaw family's lake house setting was. Woodman's of Essex was used for the restaurant "Woodman's Eat in the Rough. Water Wizz was also used for the water park scene.

Release
Box office
Grown Ups grossed $162 million in the United States and $110.2 million in other territories for a worldwide gross of $272.2 million against a production budget of $75 million. Grown Ups surpassed Click to become Sandler's highest-grossing film worldwide. Happy with the gross, Adam Sandler showed his appreciation by buying brand-new Maserati sports cars for his four co-stars.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, Grown Ups has an approval rating of 10% based on 169 reviews and an average rating of 3.5/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Grown Ups' cast of comedy vets is amiable, but they're let down by flat direction and the scattershot, lowbrow humor of a stunted script." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 30 out of 100 based on 32 reviews, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B" on an A+ to F scale.Connie Ogle of the Miami Herald referred to it as "the perfect poster child for this maddening summer of movie mediocrity." Rick Groen of The Globe and Mail criticized what he saw as blatant commercialism, saying the cast "lob[bed] gags they surely disdain at an audience they probably despise while reserving their own laughter for that off-camera dash all the way to the bank." Richard Roeper went as far as to say that it was "a blight upon the bright canvas of American cinema", and that he hated it. Tom Long of the Detroit News called it "trite comedy" and "total garbage." On the other end of the spectrum, Lisa Kennedy of the Denver Post called it "crude and decent-hearted" and "easy, breezy, predictable."

Awards
Rob Schneider was nominated for a Razzie Award for Worst Supporting Actor for the film, but lost to Jackson Rathbone for both The Last Airbender and The Twilight Saga: Eclipse.The film won at the 2011 MTV Movie Awards for the "Best Line from a Movie" category, which it won for the line "I want to get chocolate wasted!", delivered by Becky, played by Alexys Nycole Sanchez.

Home media
Grown Ups was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on November 9, 2010.

Sequel
A sequel, titled Grown Ups 2, was released on July 12, 2013. Dennis Dugan, the director of the first film, returned as director. The main cast, including Adam Sandler, Kevin James, Chris Rock, David Spade, Salma Hayek, Maya Rudolph, Maria Bello and Steve Buscemi reprised their roles, except Rob Schneider. New cast includes Andy Samberg, Taylor Lautner and Patrick Schwarzenegger. The sequel follows Lenny Feder as he relocates his family back to the small town where he and his friends grew up.  Like its predecessor, Grown Ups 2 received very poor reviews but was still a box office hit.
Passage 2:
Nanny McPhee and the Big Bang
Nanny McPhee and the Big Bang (released in the United States and Canada as Nanny McPhee Returns) is a 2010 period fantasy comedy film directed by Susanna White, produced by Tim Bevan, Eric Fellner and Lindsay Doran with music by James Newton Howard and co-produced by StudioCanal, Relativity Media, Working Title Films and Three Strange Angels. It is a sequel to the 2005 film Nanny McPhee. It was adapted by Emma Thompson from Christianna Brand's Nurse Matilda books. Thompson reprises her role as Nanny McPhee, and the film also stars Maggie Gyllenhaal, Ralph Fiennes, Rhys Ifans, Ewan McGregor, Asa Butterfield and Maggie Smith. The film was theatrically released on 20 August 2010 by Universal Pictures.
The film received positive reviews from critics and it earned $93.2 million on a $35 million budget. It also received a Young Artist Award nomination for Best Performance in a Feature Film. The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray in the UK on 19 June 2010.

Plot
Isabel Green is driven to her wit's end by her hectic life while her husband Rory fights in World War II. Between trying to keep the family farm up and running and her job in the village shop, run by the slightly mad Mrs. Docherty, she also has three boisterous children to look after, Norman, Megsie and Vincent. When her children's two wealthy, but pompous and snobby city cousins, Cyril and Celia, are evacuated to live with them in the countryside, they start fighting with them, only adding to Isabel's problems.
When the magical Nanny McPhee arrives to help, the children at first do not listen and carry on fighting, which she soon puts a stop to with her magic. Meanwhile, Isabel's brother-in-law Phil has gambled away his half of the farm, and is being chased by two hired female assassins working for casino owner Mrs. Biggles. He desperately attempts to make Isabel sell her half of the farm, using mean and spiteful schemes to leave her no choice; one of the schemes, setting loose a litter of piglets to be sold to a neighbouring farmer, is discovered by the children, leading them to bond as they work together to fix it. Isabel takes everyone on a picnic as a show of thanks, during which Mrs. Docherty's ARP Warden husband warns them about bombs and relates how he imagines a pilot might accidentally release one, and Phil subsequently delivers a telegram saying Rory was killed in action. Everyone believes the news except Norman, who is sure his father is alive because he "can feel it in [his] bones". He tells this to Cyril, who at first thinks he is just upset, but then agrees that Norman might be right; the two convince Nanny McPhee to take them to the War Office in London, where Cyril and Celia's father Lord Gray holds an important position, believing he will know the truth.
At first Lord Gray sneers at Norman's disbelief at his father's death, but after Cyril reveals that he knows he is divorcing their mother and blasts him for his neglect as a parent, Lord Gray investigates what has happened. While he is gone, Norman asks Cyril where he will live following the divorce; upon learning he rarely sees either of his parents, he says that he and Celia are welcome to live permanently with the Greens. Lord Gray returns and tells Norman that his father is merely missing in action, and that there is no record of a telegram being sent to his mother. After the boys leave, Norman deduces that Phil forged the telegram.
While the older boys are at the War Office, Megsie, Celia and Vincent try to stop Isabel from signing Phil's papers and selling the farm by creating distractions such as pretending that a mouse was in the kitchen. Just as she is about to finally do so, a German pilot accidentally drops a huge bomb on the Greens' barley field; it does not explode, but the fallout is strong enough to cover Phil's papers with ink. When Nanny McPhee, Norman and Cyril return, Phil admits to Norman's accusation of forgery and is handcuffed to the stove by Isabel. The children go out to watch Mr. Docherty defuse the bomb, but when he faints, Megsie takes over, succeeding with the help of the other children and Nanny McPhee's jackdaw friend Mr. Edelweiss. Nanny McPhee helps to harvest the barley with a little magic, saving Phil from Mrs. Biggles' hitwomen in the process. While everyone celebrates, Mrs. Docherty is revealed to be baby Agatha from the first film and to remember Nanny McPhee, who has been staying with her. As Nanny McPhee walks away from the now-happy Isabel and the children, they chase after her, only to see Rory, with an injured arm, making his way back to them. He runs to his family and they embrace.
In a mid-credits scene, Ellie, an elephant conjured by Nanny McPhee to share Vincent's bed, is seen enjoying the magically operated Scratch-o-matic invented for the piglets.

Cast
Emma Thompson as Nanny McPhee, the  nanny who changes the lives of the Green and Gray children.
Maggie Gyllenhaal as Isabel Green (née Carrington), the frazzled mother of Norman, Megsie and Vincent.
Rhys Ifans as Phil Green, Norman, Megsie and Vincent's uncle, Rory's brother and Isabel's brother-in-law, who tries to sell the farm because he gambled it away at a casino.
Asa Butterfield as Norman Green, the eldest of the Green children.
Lil Woods as Megan “Megsie” Green, the middle and only girl of the Green children.
Oscar Steer as Vincent Green, the youngest of the Green children.
Eros Vlahos as Cyril Gray, the spoiled cousin of Norman, Megsie and Vincent. He becomes kinder throughout the film and makes friends with Norman.
Rosie Taylor-Ritson as Celia Gray, the other spoiled cousin of Norman, Megsie and Vincent. She also becomes kinder throughout the film and makes friends with Megsie.
Maggie Smith as Agatha Rose Docherty (née Brown), the owner of the shop at which Mrs. Green works. She's baby Aggie from the first film grown up.
Ewan McGregor as Rory Green, Isabel's husband, Phil's brother and the father of the Greens, away fighting in World War II.
Ralph Fiennes as Lord Gray, Cyril and Celia's father, a General very high up in the War Office.
Sam Kelly as Mr. Algernon Docherty, Mrs. Docherty's husband, who's an ARP (Air Raid Precautions) Warden.
Sinead Matthews as Miss Topsey, a henchwoman of Mrs. Biggles, the woman who owns the casino at which Phil gambled the farm away.
Katy Brand as Miss Turvey, the colleague of Miss Topsey.
Bill Bailey as Farmer MacReadie, the farmer who buys the piglets from the Greens.
Nonso Anozie as Sergeant Ralph Jeffreys - the guard at the War Office, and a former charge of Nanny McPhee.
Daniel Mays as Blenkinsop - Cyril and Celia's chauffeur.
Ed Stoppard as Lieutenant Addis, a coworker of Lord Gray.
Toby Sedgwick as an enemy plane pilot.

Production
Filming locations
The village in the film is Hambleden in Buckinghamshire, the farm set and scenes were filmed in Hascombe, near Godalming in Surrey and the War Office scenes, both interior and exterior, were filmed at the University of London, and the motorbike scenes on various London roads.Dunsfold Aerodrome, the location of Top Gear, name Nanny McPhee and the Big Bang as being filmed there, with more filming taking place at Shepperton Studios.

Release
Theatrical
Nanny McPhee and the Big Bang was theatrically released on 20 August 2010 by Universal Pictures (2 April 2010 in the UK).

Home media
The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray in the UK on 19 June 2010. Nanny McPhee Returns, as the film was renamed for the North American market, was released on DVD and Blu-ray on 14 December 2010.

Other media
Emma Thomson wrote a novelization of the movie. Thomson narrated its audiobook and included a behind-the-scenes diary. Thomson won the Audie Award for Narration by the Author and was nominated for an Audie Award for Middle Grade Title and a Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album for Children for her narration

Reception
Critical response
Critical response for the film was positive. Review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gave the film a rating of 75% based on 121 reviews. The site's critic consensus reads: "Emma Thompson's second labor of love with the Nanny McPhee character actually improves on the first, delivering charming family fare with an excellent cast." Metacritic calculated an average score of 52 out of 100 based on 25 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A-" on an A+ to F scale. The Independent also gave a favourable review, with praise given to the actors and Thompson's script."

Box office
In the UK, the film opened at number one, with £2,586,760, outperforming new release The Blind Side, grossing a total of £16,211,057. In the United States and Canada, it debuted in seventh position with a $8.4 million. Gross exceeded $27 million.

Awards
Cancelled sequel
A third film, to be set in 21st-century England, was planned, but the sequel did not meet studio expectations and plans for any future films were cancelled.
Passage 3:
Here Comes the Boom
Here Comes the Boom is a 2012 American sports comedy film directed by Frank Coraci, co-written, produced by, and starring Kevin James as a biology teacher who attempts to save his school's music program by becoming an MMA fighter. It was also written by Allan Loeb with music by Rupert Gregson-Williams. The film co-stars Henry Winkler and Salma Hayek. It was produced by Happy Madison Productions. The film was released in the United States on October 12, 2012, by Columbia Pictures. The film's title is taken from the song "Boom" by Christian nu-metal band P.O.D.

Plot
Former Division I collegiate wrestler Scott Voss is a 42-year-old bored and disillusioned biology teacher at the failing Wilkinson High School. Budget cutbacks at the school jeopardize the continuation of its music program, which would result in its teacher, Marty Streb, being laid off. Concerned for both his colleague and his students, Scott attempts to raise the $48,000 necessary to keep the music program. He moonlights as a night instructor for an adult citizenship class, where student Niko requests outside tutoring. When Scott arrives at Niko's apartment, he learns that Niko is a former MMA fighter. While watching the UFC at Niko's apartment, Scott learns that the loser of a fight receives $10,000, which gives him the idea of raising the money by fighting and losing in MMA.
Scott, helped by Niko and Marty, begins with small unsanctioned bouts paying only $750 to the loser. Niko begins training him in defense, later adding trainer Mark to teach offense, after Scott knocks out opponent "Lucky" Patrick Murray and realizes that wins give larger payouts, needing fewer fights to achieve his goal. While Marty trains with Scott, Malia De La Cruz, one of Scott's students and a band member, helps Niko study for his citizenship test by putting the information into songs. Scott then begins fighting in small MMA fights and gradually gains greater amounts of money for the school.
Scott has been pursuing the school nurse, Bella Flores, and they share moments flirting with each other, while also rekindling Scott's passion for teaching. He begins to engage the class and earns the respect of his students. Scott is within $6,000 of his goal when Mark tells him that Niko turned down a sanctioned UFC fight offered by Joe Rogan, with the certainty of earning $10,000 for a loss. Scott confronts Niko, who apologizes and admits he turned it down because he was jealous as he was once asked to fight at the UFC but suffered a neck injury while training, ending his career. Scott and Niko accept the offer, and they travel to the MGM Grand Las Vegas for the fight. The night he arrives, Bella calls Scott to tell him that the school's vice principal Robert Elkins has been arrested for embezzling from the school, including Scott's winnings. All Scott's efforts have been in vain, and he decides he must win the fight and the $50,000.
The publicity of Scott's rise to fame has grown, and the school's band appears in the stands to play his theme song, "Holly Holy" by Neil Diamond, thanks to Bella contacting Rogan. During the fight, Marty reminds the losing Scott that even if he does not win, he has inspired the students, which is their real purpose as teachers. Scott has no answer to his dangerous opponent Ken Dietrich, who is angered that his original opponent canceled and that he is stuck with a man that "does not deserve" to be fighting at the UFC. Scott struggles to survive the first two rounds, but after finding inspiration from the students, he manages to win in the third and final round of the fight, earning $50,000 and Dietrich's respect. Scott and Bella kiss through the chain link fence of the ring.
In the closing scene, the music program is saved, the school is operating on a normal budget thanks to Scott's donation and Niko and all of the students in Scott's citizenship class attend their American citizenship ceremony.

Cast
Production
Filming began on March 28, 2011, in and around the Boston, Massachusetts, area. Filming continued on through May 25, 2011, in Lowell and Quincy, Massachusetts, where it wrapped shortly thereafter, by early June 2011.

Music
"Holly Holy" – versions by Neil Diamond and Charice are heard in the film
"Bouncing off the Ceiling (Upside Down)" by A-Teens
"Joker & the Thief" by Wolfmother
"Optimus Bellum Domitor" by Sak, Williams and Welch
"Boom" by P.O.D.
"Spank" by Jimmy "Bo" Horne
"James Brown Is Dead" by L.A. Style
"New Noise" by Refused
"Holly Holy" by Neil Diamond
"Faithfully" by Journey
"Holly Holy (NSFW Remix)" by Neil Diamond ft. UltraLove
"Pictures" by Joseph Anderson
"I Stand Alone" by Godsmack
"Doin' It Right (Delta Mix)" by Steve Azar

Release
DVD was released in Region 1 in the United States on February 5, 2013, and also Region 2 in the United Kingdom on 18 March 2013, it was distributed by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment.

Reception
Box office
In its opening weekend, the movie earned $11.8 million in the domestic box office and ended its box office run with $73 million worldwide.

Critical reception
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a rating of 42% based on 98 reviews, and an average rating of 5/10. The website's consensus reads, "Here Comes the Boom benefits from Kevin James's genial presence, but the film doesn't deliver enough laughs to live up to its title – or enough satisfying plot to make up the difference." On Metacritic the film has a score of 40 out of 100, based on reviews from 26 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A" on an A+ to F scale.USA Today's Scott Bowles says the film "telegraphs every punch ... but when the comedy connects, it can deliver with funny force". He says, "The film suffers from too many side stories, but it does a nice job capturing the heavyweight battles of everyday folk." 
Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune writes: "Once it gets going and commits to its time-worn inspirational formula, it's not half-bad." Neil Genzlinger of The New York Times wrote: "If you can choke down the implausible notion that the doughy Kevin James would last more than five seconds in a mixed martial arts ring, Here Comes the Boom is a moderately enjoyable, nontaxing sort of comedy."John Anderson of Variety magazine wrote: "Hands of stone meet heads of air in Here Comes the Boom, a sports story so daffy it may as well star Kevin James." He called the film "a triumph of recycling" comparing it to Rocky. Anderson is critical of the different clashing tones of the film, but calls the characters likable, and writes the "violence adds a frisson of tension to the pic’s mix of grappling, romance and anemic social critique."Entertainment Weekly's Lisa Schwarzbaum called it "A cloddish, harmlessly drecky comedy from the Sandler factory of crude mush."
Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club wrote: "Here Comes The Boom seems to have made it from the pitch stage - Kevin James does MMA to save his school or something! - to the big screen without an iota of inspiration, ambition, or personality seeping in at any juncture."
Marc Savlov of the Austin Chronicle wrote: ""Here Comes the Bomb" would've been a more fitting title, but props to Henry Winkler for rising to the occasion and turning in a sweet, idealistic performance in a film that otherwise feels like a tawdry commercial for the UFC and MMA."

Awards and nominations
Here Comes the Boom was chosen as one of ten best films for family audiences by the 21st Annual Movieguide Awards on February 15, 2013.
Passage 4:
Sau Crore
Sau Crore (lit. 'Hundred crores') is a 1991 Indian film starring, produced and directed by Dev Anand. It also debuts newcomers Fatima Sheikh and Raman Kapoor. The movie is based on the story of Indian Badminton Player Syed Modi, who was shot dead on 28 July 1988 in Lucknow as he came out of the K. D. Singh Babu Stadium after a practice session. The murder sent shock waves through India, especially after the police filed murder charges against Modi's wife Ameeta Modi and her lover (and future husband) Raja Sanjay Singh of Amethi, who was a prominent politician belonging to the Congress Party. The role of Syed Modi was played by Raman Kapoor and the politician was played by (Naseeruddin Shah).

Plot
After her husband Raj (Raman Kapoor) is murdered, Kamlesh (Fatima Sheikh) receives a shock and doesn't speak for days. The cause of this is that she indeed witnessed her husband's murder. But who did murder Raj? Was it really the politician Somnath (Naseeruddin Shah) who fell in love with Kamlesh and wanted to marry her? Was it a plot created by Somnath's rival candidate Mohanbhai (Anupam Kher) to win the elections? Or was it Kamlesh herself who wanted to leave Raj and run off with Somnath? It's up to CBI Inspector Kumar (Dev Anand) to find out.

Music
Lyrics: Suraj Sanim

External links
Sau Crore at IMDb
Passage 5:
Galate Samsara
Galate Samsara (transl. Chaotic family) is a 1977 Indian Kannada language comedy film directed by C. V. Rajendran and produced by C. Jayaram. It stars Dr.Vishnuvardhan, Rajinikanth and Manjula in the lead roles. It also stars Dwarakish, Dr. K S Ashwath, Balakrishna and Vajramuni in supporting roles. The movie is a remake of Tamil movie Veettuku Veedu which was based on the play Thikku Theriyatha Veettil which in turn was an adaptation of the English comedy play Right Bed Wrong Husband. The Marathi adaptation of the same English play titled Pati Sagle Uchapati was adapted into a Kannada titled Housefull. Further, the Marathi play was also adapted in Hindi as All The Best which was remade in Malayalam as Best of Luck which in turn went on to be remade in Kannada as Ond Chance Kodi.

Plot
Vasudevan (Dr.Vishnuvardhan) is rich businessman Kadikalingam's son. Vasu is fearful of his father, because Kadikalingam is a very strict man. He works at his father's company as General Manager. He is in love with a young bold woman Malathy. But Kadikalingam strictly opposes this love, so Vasu leaves his home and registers for marriage to Malathy. The couple is tenant to Kala's house. She is Malathy's close friend and her husband is Balu (Rajinikanth). He has a close relationship with another woman Prameela, who is a stage dancer. Kala feels unhappy about her married life. Balu has been avoiding Kala lately since his infidelity with Prameela. Balu is physically abusive towards his wife. Malathy warns Balu to stay away from Prameela and to be sincere to his wife. Balu signs the divorce papers and leaves his wife and starts staying at his girlfriends house.
Meanwhile, Balu's paternal uncle died in an accident and had named him as the next in kin in the will. They intend laying their hand on 2 lakhs cash. In a moment of crisis, Malathy is forced to make her husband Vasu pose as Kala's husband Balu. Pattusamy is manager Paramanandham's son, who works as a music teacher. Pattusamy and Paramanandham come to Kala's house and spend a week with her at her home. Pattusamy falls in love with Malathy. He tries to impress her. Pattusamy is always standing in front of Malathy's room watching her.
Prameela finds a richer businessman than Balu and kicks him out. Balu who sees Vasu and Kala's photo published in a newspaper for a soap company advertisement, goes home and argues with Vasu and Malathy. Then Malathy briefly explains the house's situation. Balu claims to hear the truth and also joins the drama.
Next day, Balu introduces himself to Paramanandham as Ramesh, Malathy's brother from Sri Lanka. Pattusamy closely watches the house and the peoples' activities because he thinks there is something fishy with the members of the house. He tells his suspicion to his father, but Paramandham does not believe his son. Unfortunately, Kadigalingam reaches Vasu's rented house and calls Kala for our home. Then, Kala and Malathy was explained the truth and Kadikalingam understood Malathy is his daughter-in-law's and mistress of Vasu. Pattusamy and his father hear the news. They are explained the crisis situation and then Paramandham gives the cash into Kala and Balu's hands. Finally Malathy succeeds in her plan and Pattusamy was asked to apologize to Malathy.

Cast
Dr. Vishnuvardhan as Vasudev Rao
Manjula as Janaki - Janu
Rajinikanth as Balu
Shubha as Kaveri
Halam
Baby Rekha as Prameela
Balakrishna
Dwarakish
K. S. Ashwath
Vajramuni

Soundtrack
Passage 6:
Greetings from the Shore
Greetings From The Shore is a 2007 American coming-of-age romantic comedy film directed by Greg Chwerchak. The movie has played over 60 festivals, winning over 20 awards. It had its American theatrical release on September 12, 2008, on a limited basis.The film is set (and was shot) on the New Jersey shore, mainly in Lavallette.

Plot
Still reeling from the death of her father, a young girl spends one last summer at the Jersey Shore before heading off to college. But when her plans fall apart, the girl stumbles into a mysterious world of Russian sailors, high-stakes gambling, and unexpected love.

Cast
Kim Shaw as Jenny Chambers
Paul Sorvino as Catch Turner
David Fumero as Benicio Aceveda
Jay O. Sanders as Commodore Callaghan
Andrew Shaifer as Flip Dooley
Lars Arentz-Hansen as Lars Ramkildestrom
Gideon Emery as Sasha Mientkiewicz
Ron Geren as Christos Zazavich
Cristin Milioti as Didi
Alexander Cendese as Owen Callaghan

Reception
Critical response
When the film was released Neil Genzlinger, the film critic of The New York Times, was critical of the actors experience, writing, "The problem with having a big-name actor in your small film is that he tends to underscore the inexperience of some of your other stars. That’s the effect Paul Sorvino has in Greetings From the Shore, a watchable-enough summer-at-the-beach tale billed as Gabrielle Berberich’s first feature as writer and producer...until Mr. Sorvino, a real actor and a good one, shows up. He plays a down-on-his-luck fisherman who takes the girl under his wing, and he makes Ms. Shaw and some of the other cast members look like amateurs. The director, Greg Chwerchak (who also gets a writing credit), doesn’t help; he allows several secondary characters to become thudding clichés, trampling the delicate story."Film critics Frederic and Mary Ann Brussat of the web based Spirituality & Practice, discussed the basic theme of the film, "Jenny's summer teaches her to go with the flow when her life plan is upset. She also learns that the universe is set up in such a felicitous way that when a door closes, a window opens."Critic David Hiltbrand liked the film, writing, "It's a formulaic and familiar plot, the Jersey girl version of The Flamingo Kid. But it unfolds smoothly, thanks to Greg Chwerchak's focused direction. And the water down on Barnegat Inlet Island looks oddly idyllic on film. Greetings From the Shore is well-acted, including by newcomer Shaw, who has an appealing, wide-eyed innocence reminiscent of a young Meg Ryan. This is a two-hankie weeper that doesn't really earn its tears. But it's a sweet little movie nonetheless."

Awards
Wins

Bare Bones International Film Festival, 2008 - Won, Festival Recognition: Instrumental Score - Jim Latham
Columbus International Film & Video Festival, 2007 - Won, Bronze Plaque Award: Entertainment - Greg Chwerchak
Great Lakes Film Festival, 2007 - Won, Grand Jury Prize: Best Narrative Feature; Best of the Fest; Best Director - Greg Chwerchak; Best Lead Actress - Kim Shaw
Red Rock Film Festival, 2007 - Won, Audience Award: Best Narrative Feature - Gabrielle Berberich, Greg Chwerchak
Wild Rose Independent Film Festival, 2007 - Won, WRIFF Award: Best Acting Ensemble, Best Screenplay, Best Feature, Best Director of a Feature, Certificate of Distinctive Achievement: Best Sound, Best Cinematography/Videography, Best Actress, Best Actor, Best Editing
Fargo Film Festival, 2008 - Won, Best Narrative Feature, Best Screenplay - Gabrielle Berberich, Greg Chwerchak
Garden State Film Festival, 2008 - Won, Audience Award: Pick of the Flicks; Home Grown Award: Best Feature - Gabrielle Berberich, Greg Chwerchak
George Lindsey UNA Film Festival, 2008 - Won, Honorable Mention: Professional Full-Length Feature
Tupelo Film Festival, 2008 - 2nd Place, Festival Prize: Best Feature - Gabrielle Berberich, Greg Chwerchak
WorldFest-Houston International Film Festival, 2008 - Won, Special Jury Award: Best Feature - Gabrielle Berberich, Greg Chwerchak
Passage 7:
Sylvia Fine
Sylvia Fine Kaye (August 29, 1913 – October 28, 1991) was an American lyricist, composer, and producer. Many of her compositions and productions were performed by her husband, comedian Danny Kaye. Fine was a Peabody Award-winner and was nominated for two Academy Awards and two Emmys during her career. She won an Emmy award in 1976 for children's special.

Early life
Sylvia Fine was born in Brooklyn, New York, the youngest of three children of a Jewish dentist, and raised in East New York. She attended Thomas Jefferson High School and studied music at Brooklyn College, where she wrote the music for the school's alma mater, with lyrics from the poet Robert Friend.

Career and Danny Kaye
She was working as an audition pianist when she met Danny Kaye; both were working on a short-lived Broadway show, The Straw Hat Revue. Fine wrote the lyrics and music for the show. Although the pair had never met before, they discovered some things in common.  They were both born in Brooklyn, and Kaye had once worked for Fine's father, watching his office while the dentist went to lunch. Dr. Fine had fired his future son-in-law for doing woodworking with his dental drills.He proposed on the telephone while working in Florida; Fine was in New York. She made the trip to Fort Lauderdale where they were married on January 3, 1940.She took a direct role in managing her husband's career and wrote many of his songs for him, both in film and recordings.  Those for the film The Court Jester were co-written with Sammy Cahn. She was an associate producer of some of the films. Fine received a Peabody Award in 1980, and during her career she was also nominated for two Oscars and two Emmys. She began working in television production with her husband's 1960s television shows.The New York Times reported, "In the 1970s, [Fine] embarked on a separate career as a television producer and teacher. She began teaching musical comedy at the University of Southern California in 1971 and at Yale in 1975. She produced and narrated the course as a 90-minute PBS program Musical Comedy Tonight (eventually a three-part series), earning her a Peabody Award in 1979.In 1975 she was executive producer for the television special "Danny Kaye: Look in at the Metropolitan opera."She produced and edited Assignment Children, a UNICEF film that starred her husband. In the last three years of her life, she had been writing a book about her life with Kaye, Fine and Danny, for Knopf Books.

Personal life
Fine and Kaye had a daughter, Dena (born December 17, 1946). They separated in September 1947, attributing the separation to "two people working very hard." They reunited seven months later, and remained married until his death in 1987.
In 1992, her daughter Dena Kaye was quoted in a newspaper article, recalling Fine's advice to her and the influence it had in her life. Both Fine and Kaye were determined not to influence their daughter's choices as she grew up. In a 1954 interview, Kaye stated that "Whatever she (Dena) wants to be she will be without interference from her mother nor from me." Dena grew up to become a journalist.

Death
Sylvia Fine Kaye died of emphysema at the age of 78 in her Manhattan apartment in 1991. She is buried with her husband at Kensico Cemetery in Valhalla, New York.

Legacy
The careers of Fine and Kaye are documented in The Danny Kaye and Sylvia Fine Collection at the Library of Congress. The materials preserved in the collection include manuscripts, scores, scripts, photographs, sound recordings, and video clips.

Selected list of Sylvia Fine songs
"Anatole of Paris" from The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (1947)
"The Inspector General" and "Happy Times" (Johnny Green, Sylvia Fine) from The Inspector General (1949)
"The Moon Is Blue" (Herschel Burke Gilbert, Sylvia Fine) from The Moon Is Blue (1953) - Oscar nominee, Best Original Song
"Knock on Wood" from Knock on Wood (1954)
"(You'll Never) Outfox the Fox" (Sammy Cahn, Sylvia Fine) from The Court Jester (1956)
"The Five Pennies" from The Five Pennies (1959) - Oscar nominee, Best Original Song 
"Lullaby in Ragtime," also from The Five Pennies
Passage 8:
Marius Weyers
Marius Weyers (born 3 February 1945, in Johannesburg) is a South African actor. He lives with his wife Yvette, an artist in her own right, in Rooi-Els in the Western Cape. He received international attention playing Andrew Steyn, a bumbling scientist in the movie The Gods Must Be Crazy (1980). He appeared in Blood Diamond (2006).

Selected filmography
1967 Love Nights in the Taiga as Markjoff
1974 No Gold for a Dead Diver as Rene Chagrin
1977 Target of an Assassin as Colonel Pahler
1980 The Gods Must Be Crazy as Andrew Steyn
1982 Gandhi as Train Conductor
1988 Thieves of Fortune as Unknown
1989 DeepStar Six as Dr. John Van Gelder
1989 Farewell to the King as Sergeant Conklin
1989 Happy Together as Denny Dollenbacher
1989 Jewel of the Gods as Snowy Grinder
1992 The Power of One as Professor Daniel Marais
1992 Golden Girls as Derek
1993 Bopha! as Van Tonder
1997 Paljas as Hendrik MacDonald
2003 Stander as General Francois Jacobus Stander, Andre Stander's Father
2005 The Triangle as Karl Sheedy
2006 Blood Diamond as Rudolf Van de Kaap
Woestynblom (TV series) as Jerry F.
2013 Nothing for Mahala as Hendrik Botha
2018 The Seagull (Die Seemeeu) as Piet
2018 The Recce as General Piet Visagie
2019 The Story of Racheltjie De Beer as George
Passage 9:
God's Law and Man's
God's Law and Man's is a lost 1917 silent film drama direct by John H. Collins and distributed by Metro Pictures. It starred Collins's wife Viola Dana. The story comes from a novel by Paul Trent, A Wife by Purchase.

Cast
Viola Dana - Ameia
Robert Walker - Dr. Claude Drummond
Augustus Phillips - Jack Aston
Henry Hallam - Kunda Ram
Frank Currier - Major General Dennison
Marie Adell - Olive Dennison
George A. Wright - Earl of Hetherington
Floyd Buckley - Lord Charles Drummond
Passage 10:
Boom Boom (John Lee Hooker song)
"Boom Boom" is a song written by American blues singer and guitarist John Lee Hooker and recorded in 1961.  Although it became a blues standard, music critic Charles Shaar Murray calls it "the greatest pop song he ever wrote". "Boom Boom" was both an American R&B and pop chart success in 1962 and a UK top-twenty hit in 1992.
The song is one of Hooker's most identifiable and enduring songs and "among the tunes that every band on the [early 1960s UK] R&B circuit simply had to play".  It has been recorded by numerous blues and other artists, including a 1965 North American hit by the Animals.

Recording and composition
Prior to recording for Vee-Jay Records, John Lee Hooker was primarily a solo performer or  accompanied by a second guitarist, such as early collaborators Eddie Burns or Eddie Kirkland. However, with Vee-Jay, he usually recorded with a small backing band, as heard on the singles "Dimples", "I Love You Honey", and "No Shoes". Detroit keyboardist Joe Hunter, who had previously worked with Hooker, was again enlisted for the recording session. Hunter brought with him "the cream of the Motown label's session men, later known as the Funk Brothers": bassist James Jamerson, drummer Benny Benjamin, plus guitarist Larry Veeder, tenor saxophonist Hank Cosby, and baritone saxophonist Andrew "Mike" Terry. They have been described as "just the right band" for "Boom Boom". Hooker had a unique sense of timing, which demanded "big-eared sidemen".The original "Boom Boom" is an uptempo (168 beats per minute) blues song, which has been notated in 2/2 time in the key of F.  It has been described as "about the tightest musical structure of any Hooker composition: its verses sedulously adhere to the twelve-bar format over which Hooker generally rides so roughshod". The song uses "a stop-time hook that opens up for one of the genre's most memorable guitar riffs" and incorporates a middle instrumental section Hooker-style boogie.According to Hooker, he wrote the song during an extended engagement at the Apex Bar in Detroit.

I would never be on time [for the gig]; I always would be late comin' in.  And she [the bartender Willa] kept saying, "Boom boom – you late again".  Every night: "Boom, boom – you late again".  I said "Hmm, that's a song!" ... I got it together, the lyrics, rehearsed it, and I played it at the place, and the people went wild.
Also included are several wordless phrases, "how-how-how-how" and "hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm".  "Boom Boom" became the Hooker song that is "the most memorable, the most instantly appealing, and the one which has proved the most adaptable to the needs of other performers". ZZ Top later used similar lines ("how-how-how-how") for their popular "La Grange".

Releases and charts
When "Boom Boom" was released as a single in April or May 1962, the song became a hit.  It entered the Billboard Hot R&B Sides chart on June 16, 1962, where it spent eight weeks and reached number 16. The song also appeared the Billboard Hot 100, where it peaked at number 60, making it one of only two Hooker singles to enter the broader chart. It was included on the 1962 Vee-Jay album Burnin'  as well as many Hooker compilations, including John Lee Hooker: The Ultimate Collection. 
Two years later, in 1964, the song made a brief appearance on the chart in Walloon Belgium, which at the time did not rank positions.  In 1992, after being featured in a Lee Jeans commercial, the "Boom Boom" reached number 16 on the UK Singles Chart. It also appeared on charts in New Zealand (number 24 in 1992) and France (numbers 45 in 1993 and 87 in 2013).Hooker recorded several later versions. Following the success of the Animals' version, Hooker re-recorded the song in 1968 for Stateside Records as the B-side of "Cry Before I Go" under the longer title "Boom Boom Boom".  He reworked the song as "Bang Bang Bang Bang" for his Live at Soledad Prison album, as a South Side Chicago street musician in the film The Blues Brothers (but the song itself is not included in the film soundtrack), and as the title track for his 1992 album Boom Boom with Jimmie Vaughan.

The Animals version
English rock band the Animals recorded "Boom Boom" for their 1964 UK debut album The Animals.  Their blues-rock rendition generally follows John Lee Hooker's original, although they add "shake it baby" as a response to the "come on and shake" refrain in the middle section, taken from Hooker's "Shake It Baby" (recorded during the 1962 American Folk Blues Festival tour in Europe, where it became a hit in 1963).The Animals' version was released as a single in North America in November 1964 and is included on the Animals' second American album, The Animals on Tour. It reached number 43 on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 14 on the Canadian RPM Top 40&5 singles chart. The song also appeared on the unranked chart in Wallonia.Cash Box described it as "a rousing salute to the apple of a guy's eye" that's "exciting, funky-styled" and "a great swinger."Over the years, several versions of "Boom Boom" have been recorded by various Animals reunion lineups as well as by former members Eric Burdon and Alan Price. In 2012, the original 1964 version was used in the film Skyfall.

Big Head Todd and the Monsters version
American rock group Big Head Todd and the Monsters recorded "Boom Boom" for their album Beautiful World (1997). Group bassist Rob Squires described the recording session: "Hooker has just this incredible presence. He walked into the room and literally everyone was intimidated including our producer and the people who work in the studio."  Beginning with the television series debut of NCIS: New Orleans in 2014, a portion of Big Head Todd's version has been used as the opening theme.

Recognition and legacy
In 1995, John Lee Hooker's "Boom Boom" was included in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's list of "The Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll".  It was inducted into the Blues Foundation Hall of Fame in 2009 in the "Classics of Blues Recording" category. A Detroit Free Press poll in 2016 ranked the song at number 37 in "Detroit's 100 Greatest Songs". Rolling Stone magazine ranked Hooker's version at number 463 on its 2021 list of the "500 Greatest Songs of All Time", down from number 220 on its 2004 list.
Passage 11:
Beethoven (TV series)
Beethoven is a 1994  American Saturday morning cartoon television series loosely based on the 1992 motion picture of the same name.  The series was produced by Northern Lights Entertainment and Universal Cartoon Studios, and aired for one season on CBS Saturday Mornings, with 13 episodes with two 10 minute segments produced. Dean Jones, who played Dr. Varnick in the film, voiced the role of George Newton; Nicholle Tom, who played teenage daughter Ryce in the film and Beethoven's 2nd, was the only cast member from the films to reprise her role in the series.

Premise
The Newton family love Beethoven, their St. Bernard dog. But the father, George, has his moments with Beethoven, who gets in different mishaps time after time. When not with the Newton family, Beethoven spends time with three other dogs, Sparky (the stray from the first film), Ginger, and Caesar.
Unlike the film, Beethoven has a speaking voice, at least among the other animals. The same plot was used in another animated series, Free Willy, where the main character also could talk.

Cast
Additional voices
Crew
Paul Germain - Producer, Story Editor and Voice Director

Episodes
Home release
Universal and Goodtimes released episodes of the show on VHS. In July 2020, the series became available on the Peacock streaming service.
Passage 12:
Sonny & Cher
Sonny & Cher were an American pop and entertainment duo in the 1960s and 1970s, made up of spouses Sonny Bono and Cher. The couple started their career in the mid-1960s as R&B backing singers for record producer Phil Spector.
The pair first achieved fame with two hit songs in 1965, "Baby Don't Go" and "I Got You Babe". Signing with Atco/Atlantic Records, they released three studio albums in the late 1960s, as well as the soundtrack recordings for two unsuccessful movies, Good Times and Chastity, with Cher contributing vocals to one cut, "Chastity's Song (Band of Thieves)". In 1972, after three years of silence, the couple returned to the studio and released two other albums under the MCA/Kapp Records label.
In the 1970s, they also positioned themselves as media personalities with two top ten TV shows in the US, The Sonny & Cher Comedy Hour and The Sonny & Cher Show. The couple's career as a duo ended in 1975 following their divorce. In the decade they spent together, Sonny and Cher were nominated for two Grammy Awards and sold over 40 million records worldwide. Rolling Stone ranked them No. 18 on its list of the 20 Greatest Duos of All Time.Performing under her first name, Cher went on to a highly successful career as a solo singer and actress, while Sonny Bono was eventually elected to Congress as a Republican U.S. Representative from California. The two performers were inducted to the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1998, following Sonny's death in a skiing accident.

Career
1962–1964: The origin
Cherilyn Sarkisian first met Salvatore Bono in a Los Angeles coffee shop in November 1962, when she was sixteen. Eleven years her senior, Bono was working for record producer Phil Spector at Gold Star Studios in Hollywood. The two became best friends, eventual lovers, and were supposedly married in 1964, but Bono says in his autobiography that it was not an official marriage. They were legally wed after their only child, Chaz, was born. Through Bono, Cher started as a session singer, and sang backup on several of Spector's classic recordings, including "Be My Baby" by the Ronettes, "You've Lost That Loving Feeling" by The Righteous Brothers and Darlene Love's "A Fine, Fine Boy". In Darlene Love's recording, the listener can clearly hear Cher and Sonny close to the mic (along with Love, who recorded her own backing vocals).

1965–1966: Career development
With Bono continuing to write, arrange and produce the songs, the couple's first incarnation was as the duo "Caesar and Cleo". They released some singles in 1964, including "The Letter", with Vault Records, and "The Letter", "Do You Wanna Dance" and "Love Is Strange", with Reprise Records.In September 1964, they released "Baby Don't Go" under the name of Sonny & Cher, which became their first regional hit. The song was later included on the 1965 Reprise compilation Baby Don't Go – Sonny & Cher and Friends, which also included songs from artists such as Bill Medley, The Lettermen and The Blendells.The duo released their first album Look at Us in the summer of 1965. The album contained the number one single "I Got You Babe". Look at Us peaked at number two on the Billboard chart for eight weeks in the later part of 1965.Sonny & Cher made their first promotional tour of Britain in the first two weeks of August 1965. The tour was organized and overseen by Larry Page, co-manager of the English rock band the Kinks, who met Cher a month earlier while she finished recording her debut album and while the Kinks toured America. Page and the Kinks' publicist Brian Sommerville quickly signed to be Sonny & Cher's European business manager and British publicist, respectively. During their two weeks in Britain, the duo primarily appeared on British television and radio, but they also performed at the 100 Club in central London on August 5.The couple appeared on many of the top television shows of the era including The Ed Sullivan Show, American Bandstand, Where The Action Is, Hollywood A Go-Go, Hollywood Palace, Hullabaloo, Beat Club, Shindig!, Ready Steady Go! and Top of the Pops. They also appeared as themselves in the film Wild on the Beach, singing "It's Gonna Rain". On their first album Bono also displayed his political interest long before running for Congress in the lyrics of the song, "The Revolution Kind".
As the followup to the success of Look at Us, they released their second studio album in April 1966, The Wondrous World of Sonny & Chér, which peaked at number 34. The two dressed in animal skins with Bono wearing knee high caveman boots and Cher going barefoot.During 1965, five of their songs were in US Billboard Top 20, a record passed only by Elvis Presley and behind famous artists like The Beatles, The Rolling Stones and others. Periodic solo releases by Cher continued during this period, including major successes with "Bang Bang (My Baby Shot Me Down)", and Burt Bacharach & Hal David's theme from "Alfie" (as heard in the motion picture Alfie, as well as a single release), both in 1966. Because they sided with the young people being harassed on the Sunset Strip during the Sunset Strip curfew riots; they were removed from their promised position of honor in the Tournament of Roses Parade in January 1967.

1967–1969: Career woes
In 1967, Sonny and Cher released their third album, In Case You're In Love. It peaked at number 45 in the U.S. charts. It contained two hit singles, both written by Bono, "The Beat Goes On" (No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100) and "Little Man" (No. 21 on the Billboard Hot 100).
In an attempt to capitalize on the duo's initial success, Bono speedily arranged a film project for the duo to star in, but the 1967 feature, Good Times, was a major bomb, despite the efforts of fledgling director William Friedkin and co-star George Sanders. After Good Times flopped in 1968, Columbia Pictures immediately sold rights to their intended follow-up film Speedway to MGM. The couple were replaced by Elvis Presley and Nancy Sinatra. In 1969, another film, Chastity, starring Cher, written and produced by Sonny, was also a commercial bomb.Sonny and Cher's career had stalled by 1968 as album sales quickly dried up. Their gentle, easy-listening pop sound and drug-free life had become unpopular in an era increasingly consumed with the psychedelic rock of the evolving landscape of American pop culture during the late 1960s.
Bono decided to forge ahead, carving a new career for the duo in Las Vegas resorts, where they sharpened their public persona with Cher as the wise-cracking, glamorous singer, and Bono as the good-natured recipient of her insults. In reality, Bono controlled every aspect of their act, from the musical arrangements to the joke-writing. While success was slow to come, their luck improved when network TV talent scouts attended a show, noting their potential appeal for a variety series.
Sonny and Cher also welcomed their first child, Chastity (named after Cher's movie), born on March 4, 1969.

1970–1977: TV success and divorce
In 1970, Sonny and Cher starred in their first television special, The Nitty Gritty Hour, a mixture of slapstick comedy, skits, and live music. The appearance was a critical success, which led to numerous guest spots on other television shows. They also appeared in The New Scooby-Doo Movies as guest stars.
Sonny and Cher caught the eye of CBS head of programming Fred Silverman while guest-hosting The Merv Griffin Show, and Silverman offered the duo their own variety show. The Sonny & Cher Comedy Hour debuted in 1971 as a summer replacement series. The show returned to prime time later that year and was an immediate hit, quickly reaching the Top 10. The show received 15 Emmy Award nominations during its run, winning one for direction, throughout its initial four seasons on CBS. The duo also revived their recording career, releasing the album All I Ever Need Is You, and charting two more top ten hits: "All I Ever Need Is You", and "A Cowboy's Work Is Never Done" in 1972.Sonny and Cher's dialogues were patterned after the successful nightclub routines of Louis Prima and Keely Smith: the happy-go-lucky husband squelched by a tart remark from the unamused wife. The show featured a stock company of zany comedians, including Teri Garr, Freeman King, Ted Ziegler, Billy Van and Murray Langston (later The Unknown Comic on The Gong Show). One sketch satirizing CBS's detective show Cannon and its portly star William Conrad was so successful that Sonny and Cher staged several follow-ups, with Tony Curtis as "Detective Fat". Everybody in these sketches wore wide-waisted "fat suits" (similar to hoop skirts), so Detective Fat and his clients and his suspects would spend most of the time bumping each other and bouncing across the crowded room.
By the third season of the Sonny & Cher Comedy Hour (1974), the marriage of Sonny and Cher was falling apart; the duo separated later that year. The show imploded, while still rating in the top 10. What followed was a very public divorce (finalized on June 26, 1975). Cher won a Golden Globe Award for Best Performance By an Actress in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy for The Sonny & Cher Comedy Hour in 1974.

Bono launched his own show, The Sonny Comedy Revue, in the fall of 1974, retaining the "Sonny and Cher" troupe of comedians and writers. Cher also announced plans to star in a new variety series of her own. Critics predicted that Bono would be the big winner with a solo comedy vehicle, and held little hope for Cher's more musical showcase. After only six weeks, however, Bono's show was abruptly canceled.The Cher show debuted as an elaborate, all-star television special on February 16, 1975, featuring Flip Wilson, Bette Midler, and special guest Elton John. Cloris Leachman and Jack Albertson both won Emmy Awards for their appearances as guest-stars a few weeks later, and the series received four additional Emmy nominations that year. The first season ranked in the Top 25 of the year-end ratings.
As a result of the divorce, Sonny and Cher went their separate ways until Cher attended the opening of one of Bono's restaurants in something of a reconciliation. The Sonny & Cher Show returned in 1976, even though they were no longer married (the duo "reunited" with a humorous handshake). After struggling with low ratings through 1977, Sonny and Cher finally parted ways for good. In 1976, Mego Toys also released a line of toys and dolls, in the likeness of Sonny & Cher. The release of these fashion dolls coincided with the popularity of The Sonny & Cher Show.

1978–1999: After Sonny and Cher
Sonny Bono went on to an acting career and later entered politics, eventually becoming a member of the U.S. House of Representatives. Cher went on to become a Grammy Award-winning solo singer and an Academy Award-winning actress.
The couple made two surprise impromptu reunion performances: the first on The Mike Douglas Show in the spring of 1979, singing a medley of "United We Stand" and "Without You", and the second on November 13, 1987, on Late Night with David Letterman where they performed their hit song "I Got You Babe"; it turned out to be the last time the two would perform together.In early 1999, And the Beat Goes On: The Sonny and Cher Story, directed by David Burton Morris and starring Jay Underwood and Renee Faia, was broadcast on ABC. The TV movie was based on the autobiography of Bono, and focuses on the relationship between the couple during the early 1960s to their divorce in the mid 1970s. This movie was also nominated for two Emmy Awards.

Bono's death, music copyright
On January 5, 1998, Bono died of injuries from hitting a tree while skiing at Heavenly Ski Resort in Lake Tahoe. He was 62 years old. Bono's death came just days after Michael Kennedy died in a similar accident. Bono's widow, Mary, was selected to fill the remainder of his congressional term, and was re-elected in her own right, serving until she was defeated for re-election in 2012. She continues to champion many of her late husband's causes, including the ongoing fight as how to best save the Salton Sea.
The funeral, unbeknownst to Cher, was broadcast live on CNN. She gave a tearful eulogy, after which the attendees sang the song "The Beat Goes On". In front of millions, Cher tearfully and effusively praised Bono, calling him "the most unforgettable character I've ever met". His final resting place is Desert Memorial Park in nearby Cathedral City, California, the same cemetery in which Frank Sinatra was laid to rest later that same year. The epitaph on Bono's headstone reads: "And The Beat Goes On".In 1998, Sonny and Cher received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for Television. Cher appeared at the event with Mary Bono, who accepted the award on behalf of her late husband. Cher paid tribute to Bono in the CBS special Sonny and Me: Cher Remembers, calling her grief "something I never plan to get over". During the same year, Cher also released her twenty-second album Believe that was highly influenced by Bono's death, and in the booklet Cher wrote "In memory of Son".When Cher and Bono divorced, they agreed to split revenue from the songs recorded together. When Bono died, one-third of his interest passed to wife Mary Bono, and one-sixth interests were split amongst his children. Cher sued UMG in 2009, claiming she and Bono's heirs were owed $5,000,000 in "hidden" royalties.

Legacy and achievements
Author Joseph Murrells described Sonny & Cher as "part of the leading exponents of the rock-folk-message type of song, a hybrid combining the beat and instrumentation of rock music with folk lyrics and often lyrics of protest."The Sonny & Cher Comedy Hour received numerous Emmy nominations; Director Art Fisher won for Outstanding Directing for a Variety Series in 1972. Cher won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy in 1974.Sonny and Cher received the following honors:

1966: Grammy nomination for Best New Artist
1972: Grammy nomination for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance
1998: Received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame
2015: Ranked No. 18 on Rolling Stone's list of the 20 Greatest Duos of All Time

Filmography
Discography
Look at Us (1965)
The Wondrous World of Sonny & Chér (1966)
In Case You're in Love (1967)
All I Ever Need Is You (1972)
Mama Was a Rock and Roll Singer, Papa Used to Write All Her Songs (1974)

See also
Cher
Sonny Bono
Supercouple
List of number-one hits (United States)
List of artists who reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100

Notes
Passage 13:
Shakalaka Boom Boom
Shakalaka Boom Boom is a 2007 Indian musical drama film directed and produced by Suneel Darshan and written by Anurag Kashyap. The film stars Bobby Deol, Upen Patel, Celina Jaitly and Kangana Ranaut in the lead. It released on April 6, 2007.
Shakalaka Boom Boom is based on conflicts and the power game involved in the functioning of the music industry. The film is loosely based on the Academy Award winning film Amadeus. The film was partly shot in South Africa.

Plot
Shakalaka Boom Boom follows the tale of a jealous, selfish and greedy music artist, Ayan Joshi aka AJ (Bobby Deol). AJ is one of the finest music artists in the industry and is currently under a stop since he can't think of a new project. AJ is in love with the hot and sexy Ruhi (Kangana Ranaut) and hopes to tell her how he feels. However, a wannabe singer, Reggie (Upen Patel) appears who falls in love with Ruhi and woos her before AJ can. 
Therefore, AJ swears to destroy Reggie's career and hence comes into Reggie's life as his friend. Getting him drunk, getting him smoking, is all that AJ has been doing to Reggie, and Reggie even loses control and passes out. One day, AJ finds out all Reggie's secrets and gets him so drunk that he has liver-fail. While Reggie was in the state of dying, AJ takes all his music-notes and beats and flees from the place. Then Ruhi shows up and takes him to the hospital. He is placed into the operation section due to liver failure, and then Ruhi plans to destroy AJ's career just like he did to Reggie.
Though Ruhi does not know that AJ isn't alone, he also has his hidden agenda with Reggie's ex-girlfriend Sheena (Celina Jaitly) who is now a bigshot due to AJ. AJ and Sheena together publish Reggie's music as their own, and it goes onto becoming a big hit. At the music-signing, Ruhi gets her gun out, though it doesn't seem to work. She seems that's it, though Karma has a different plan in mind. Due to her gun not working, she leaves and as she leaves, a disco ball randomly falls on top of AJ's head. He is placed into the hospital, and the doctors declare him "deaf". The ending shows him going to hell, and Reggie waking up to a better life, as he and Ruhi have now proved that the music is really his.

Cast
Bobby Deol as A.J.
Upen Patel as Reggie
Celina Jaitly as Sheena
Kangana Ranaut as Ruhi
Asrani as Yogra
Dalip Tahil as Kumar
Anupam Kher as Reggie's Father
Govind Namdev as Guru
Vivek Vaswani as Vidyacharan Shukla
Seema Rahmani as Seema

Soundtrack
All songs  are composed by Himesh Reshammiya and lyrics are penned by Sameer.

Reception
Critical reception
Shakalaka Boom Boom attracted negative reviews from top critics of India. Mayank Shekhar of Hindustan Times rated the film with 1 out of 5 stars. Shakti Salgaokar of DNA gave movie a one and half stars and wrote in his review, "It's simple — sexual innuendo, potshots at popular films, bad mimicry, foreign locations, a generous dose of overacting, an item song and a gora villain. And as he magnificently presents the climax of the film. Spare us the comedy, please?" Nikhat Kazmi of Times of India said, "This one's definitely not for the fastidious, choosy viewer but for those who don't mind losing it for a bit, Shakalaka Boom Boom works like an average Bollywood musical. Performance-wise, it's one big circus with the guys hogging most of the limelight. The girls — Kangana and Celina — are mere confetti" and gave it 3 out of 5 stars. Taran Adarsh also gave it 3 out of 5 stars, saying "It's a well-crafted entertainer and lives up to the expectations of its target audience — the youth. At the box-office, its business at the multiplexes will help it generate good revenue, making it a profitable proposition for its investors."
Passage 14:
He Comes Up Smiling
He Comes Up Smiling is a 1918 American comedy film produced by and starring Douglas Fairbanks and directed by Allan Dwan.
This film was based on a novel of the same title by Charles Sherman, which was adapted into a 1914 play of the same name by Byron Ongley and Emil Nyitray. Fairbanks starred in the play with Patricia Collinge as the female lead. This film "survives incomplete".

Plot
As described in a film magazine, the principal duty of bank clerk Jerry Martin is to care for the bank president's pet canary. The bird escapes and Jerry starts in pursuit. In a chase that takes him far afield, Jerry meets a hobo and decides to give up his bank job. Baron Bean (Montana), another hobo, becomes his valet, but they desert Jerry when he is taking a bath and steal his clothes. He finds a suit belonging to William Batchelor (MacQuarrie), a broker who is cooling off at a pool, and with the broker's business cards he passes himself off as Batchelor. He meets John Bartlett (Campeau) and his daughter Billie (Daw) and promptly falls in love. Her father is also a stock broker who has been nicked by Batchelor. An attempt is made to corner the market while Jerry is being entertained, but he foils the plotters, falls heir to a fortune, and wins the love of Billie.

Cast
Douglas Fairbanks as Jerry Martin
Marjorie Daw as Billie Bartlett
Herbert Standing as Mike
Frank Campeau as John Bartlett
Bull Montana as Baron Bean
Albert MacQuarrie as William Batchelor
Kathleen Kirkham as Louise
Jay Dwiggins as General
William Elmer
Robert Cain

Preservation
The surviving reels of He Comes Up Smiling were preserved by the Academy Film Archive in 2010.