Passage 1:
Can't Hurry Love
Can't Hurry Love is an American sitcom television series created by Gina Wendkos, starring Nancy McKeon that aired on CBS from September 18, 1995, to February 26, 1996.

Premise
The series is about Annie, a single, thirty-something woman living in New York and her three friends: Didi, Roger and Elliot. The general premise of the series centers around love seeking by Annie. Most of the action takes place in either Annie's small apartment or the employment agency she manages. Roger and Elliot work with her at the agency and Didi, the beautiful free spirit of the group, often drops by the agency  or Annie's apartment.

Cast
Nancy McKeon as Annie O'Donnell
Mariska Hargitay as Didi Edelstein
Louis Mandylor as Roger Carlucci
Kevin Crowley as Elliot Tenney

Cancellation
The series was canceled after one season despite having an average household rating of 11.4, tying it for 24th place among all TV shows that year.

Episodes
Passage 2:
Lava Ground
Lava Ground is the debut album from Jamaican reggae artist I Wayne. The album features guest appearances from Fire Chess, Harmony and Fire Star. As well as production from P. Henry, M.Miller, O. Hibbert etc. The album includes the hits Living In Love and Can't Satisfy Her.

Track listing
"Life Seeds
"Lava Ground"
"Rastafari Liveth"
"More Life"
"Bleacher"
"Don't Worry"
"Ma Ma and Pa Pa" (feat. Fire Chess)
"Nah Draw Nil"
"Touch Her Softly"
"Ready Fe Live Up"
"Kid Artist"
"Living in Love"
"Conquer" (feat. Fire Star)
"Can't Satisfy Her (Prelude)"
"Can't Satisfy Her"
"Grow Proper"
"Cool as the Breeze"
"Keep Burning Rome" (feat. Harmony)
Passage 3:
John Cowsill
John Patrick Cowsill (born March 2, 1956) is an American musician, best known for his work as a singer and drummer with his siblings' band The Cowsills. He has been a drummer and vocalist for The Beach Boys touring band, which featured original Beach Boy Mike Love and long time member Bruce Johnston. Cowsill has also played keyboards for the "Beach Boys Band" performing Al Jardine's and the late Carl Wilson's vocal parts. He also has performed and recorded with Jan and Dean.

Early life
John Patrick Cowsill was born in Newport, Rhode Island to William "Bud" and Barbara Cowsill. He is the second youngest of seven children (Bill, Richard, Bob, Paul, Barry, John, Susan).

The Cowsills
In the wake of Beatlemania, John and three of his brothers, Bill, Bob, and Barry, would form their own group solely based around the Liverpool band. Soon after, their mother Barbara and sister Susan would also join. They signed to a label in 1965 and after releasing a few non-commercially successful singles, were transferred to MGM Records in 1967. Their first single with MGM was The Rain, the Park & Other Things.
John mainly backing vocals, although he sang lead on Silver Threads and Golden Needles. From 1967 to 1969, the family group would have more hit songs such as Indian Lake, We Can Fly, and Hair, they split in 1972, although John would re-appear with the band for most of its reformed tenures. The Cowsills were the main inspiration for The Partridge Family.

Tommy Tutone
In the early 1980s, Cowsill recorded with the one-hit wonder band Tommy Tutone, playing percussion and singing back-up vocals on the band's hit, "867-5309/Jenny," although he did not appear in the video.

The Beach Boys
Cowsill began playing with the Beach Boys touring band on keyboards in 2000.  He moved to the drums in 2008. His solos for the concerts include "Wild Honey," and "Sail On, Sailor." and also "Darlin" and "California Dreaming" on the 2022 tour. In 2011, Cowsill was confirmed to be performing alongside The Beach Boys on their 50th Anniversary Reunion Tour. Cowsill appears on the band's subsequent studio album, That's Why God Made the Radio (2012). He also performed on Mike Love's solo albums Unleash the Love (2017) and Reason for the Season (2018).

Other works
In 2017, Cowsill joined with Vicki Peterson and Bill Mumy as the band Action Skulls to release an album (also including posthumous contributions from the bassist Rick Rosas) entitled Angels Hear.For a time, he was part of Dwight Twilley's band, as was his sister Susan Cowsill.

Personal life
In October 2003, he married Vicki Peterson of The Bangles.

Discography
With the Cowsills
With Tommy Tutone
Studio albums
Singles
With The Beach Boys
Albums
That's Why God Made the Radio (2012)

Singles
That's Why God Made the Radio (2012)
Isn't It Time (2012)

Mike Love
Albums
Unleash the Love (2017)
Reason for the Season (2018)
Passage 4:
Platonic love
Platonic love is a type of love in which sexual desire or romantic features are nonexistent or have been suppressed or sublimated, but it means more than simple friendship.The term is derived from the name of Greek philosopher Plato, though the philosopher never used the term himself. Platonic love, as devised by Plato, concerns rising through levels of closeness to wisdom and true beauty, from carnal attraction to individual bodies to attraction to souls, and eventually, union with the truth.Platonic love is contrasted with romantic love.

Classical philosophical interpretation
Platonic love is examined in Plato's dialogue, the Symposium, which has as its topic the subject of love, or more generally the subject of Eros. It explains the possibilities of how the feeling of love began and how it has evolved, both sexually and non-sexually, and defines genuine platonic love as inspiring a person's mind and soul and directing their attention towards spiritual matters. Of particular importance is the speech of Socrates, who attributes to the prophet Diotima an idea of platonic love as a means of ascent to contemplation of the divine, an ascent known as the "Ladder of Love". For Diotima and Plato generally, the most correct use of love of human beings is to direct one's mind to love of divinity. Socrates defines love based on separate classifications of pregnancy (to bear offspring); pregnancy of the body, pregnancy of the soul, and direct connection to existence. Pregnancy of the body results in human children. Pregnancy of the soul, the next step in the process, produces "virtue"—which is the soul (truth) translating itself into material form. "... virtue for the Greeks means self-sameness ... in Plato's terms, Being or idea."(106)

Eros
Pausanias, in Plato's Symposium (181b–182a), defines two types of the love known as "Eros": vulgar Eros, or earthly love, and divine Eros, or divine love. Pausanias defines vulgar Eros as material attraction towards a person's beauty for the purposes of physical pleasure and reproduction, and divine Eros as starting from physical attraction but transcending gradually to love for supreme beauty, placed on a similar level to the divine. This concept of divine Eros was later transformed into the term "platonic love".
Vulgar Eros and divine Eros were both considered to be connected, and part of the same continuous process of pursuing perfection of one's being, with the purpose of mending one's human nature and eventually reaching a point of unity where there is no longer an aspiration or need to change.
"Eros is ... a moment of transcendence ... in so far as the other can never be possessed without being annihilated in its status as the other, at which point both desire and transcendence would cease ... (84)

Eros as a god
In the Symposium, Eros is discussed as a Greek god—more specifically, the king of the gods, with each guest of the party giving a eulogy in praise of Eros.

Virtue
Virtue, according to Greek philosophy, is the concept of how closely reality and material form equates good, positive, or benevolent. This can be seen as a form of linguistic relativity.

Some modern authors' perception of the terms "virtue" and "good" as they are translated into English from the Symposium are a good indicator of this misunderstanding. In the following quote, the author simplifies the idea of virtue as simply what is "good"."... what is good is beautiful, and what is beautiful is good ..."

Ladder of Love
The Ladder of Love is a metaphor that relates each step toward Being as consecutive rungs of a ladder. Each step closer to the truth further distances love from beauty of the body toward love that is more focused on wisdom and the essence of beauty.
The ladder starts with carnal attraction of body for body, progressing to a love for body and soul. Eventually, in time, with consequent steps up the ladder, the idea of beauty is eventually no longer connected with a body, but entirely united with Being itself."[...] decent human beings must be gratified, as well as those that are not as yet decent, so that they might become more decent; and the love of the decent must be preserved." (187d, 17) - Eryximachus' "completion" of Pausanias' speech on Eros

Tragedy and comedy
Plato's Symposium defines two extremes in the process of platonic love; the entirely carnal and the entirely ethereal. These two extremes of love are seen by the Greeks in terms of tragedy and comedy. According to Diotima in her discussion with Socrates, for anyone to achieve the final rung in the Ladder of Love, they would essentially transcend the body and rise to immortality—gaining direct access to Being. Such a form of love is impossible for a mortal to achieve.
What Plato describes as "pregnancy of the body" is entirely carnal and seeks pleasure and beauty in bodily form only. This is the type of love, that, according to Socrates, is practiced by animals."Now, if both these portraits of love, the tragic and the comic, are exaggerations, then we could say that the genuine portrayal of Platonic love is the one that lies between them. The love described as the one practiced by those who are pregnant according to the soul, who partake of both the realm of beings and the realm of Being, who grasp Being indirectly, through the mediation of beings, would be a love that Socrates could practice."

Tragedy
Diotima considers the carnal limitation of human beings to the pregnancy of the body to be a form of tragedy, as it separates someone from the pursuit of truth. One would be forever limited to beauty of the body, never being able to access the true essence of beauty.

Comedy
Diotima considers the idea of a mortal having direct access to Being to be a comic situation simply because of the impossibility of it. The offspring of true virtue would essentially lead to a mortal achieving immortality.

Historical views of platonic love
In the Middle Ages, new interest in the works of Plato, his philosophy and his view of love became more popular, spurred on by Georgios Gemistos Plethon during the Councils of Ferrara and Firenze in 1438–1439. Later in 1469, Marsilio Ficino put forward a theory of neo-platonic love, in which he defined love as a personal ability of an individual, which guides their soul towards cosmic processes, lofty spiritual goals and heavenly ideas. The first use of the modern sense of platonic love is considered to be by Ficino in one of his letters.
Though Plato's discussions of love originally centered on relationships which were sexual between members of the same sex, scholar Todd Reeser studies how the meaning of platonic love in Plato's original sense underwent a transformation during the Renaissance, leading to the contemporary sense of nonsexual heterosexual love.The English term "platonic" dates back to William Davenant's The Platonick Lovers, performed in 1635, a critique of the philosophy of platonic love which was popular at Charles I's court. The play was derived from the concept in Plato's Symposium of a person's love for the idea of good, which he considered to lie at the root of all virtue and truth. For a brief period, platonic love was a fashionable subject at the English royal court, especially in the circle around Queen Henrietta Maria, the wife of King Charles I. Platonic love was the theme of some of the courtly masques performed in the Caroline era, though the fashion for this soon waned under pressures of social and political change.

Seven types of love
Throughout these eras, platonic love was slowly categorized into seven different classical definitions. These were:

Eros: sexual or passionate love, or a modern perspective of romantic love.
Philia: the love of friendship or goodwill, often met with mutual benefits that can also be formed by companionship, dependability, and trust.
Storge: the love found between parents and children, often a unilateral love.
Agape: the universal love, consisting of love for strangers, nature, or God.
Ludus: playful and uncommitted love, intended for fun with no resulting consequences.
Pragma: love founded on duty and reason, and one's longer-term interests.
Philautia: self-love, both healthy or unhealthy; unhealthy if one places oneself above the gods (to the point of hubris), and healthy if it is used to build self-esteem and confidence.Despite the variety and number of definitions, the different distinctions between types of love were not considered concrete and mutually exclusive, and were often considered to blend into one another at certain points.

Modern interpretations
Definition
"Platonic love in its modern popular sense is an affectionate relationship into which the sexual element does not enter, especially in cases where one might easily assume otherwise." "Platonic lovers function to underscore a supportive role where the friend sees [their] duty as the provision of advice, encouragement, and comfort to the other person ... and do not entail exclusivity."

Complications
One of the complications of platonic love lies within the persistence of the use of the title itself "platonic love" versus the use of "friend". It is the use of the word love that directs us towards a deeper relationship than the scope of a normal friendship.

Queerplatonic love
Some in the aromantic and asexual communities, within the broader LGBT community, have coined the term "queerplatonic" to refer to formal intimate relationships between significant others that do not involve romance. Queerplatonic feelings are often described, like romance, as involving a deeper and more profound emotional connection than friendship.
Julie Sondra Decker writes that queerplatonic love often "looks indistinguishable from romance when outside the equation", but should not be "assigned a romantic status if participants say it is not romantic". She also notes that it can also be misread by observers as close friendship in circumstances where overtly romantic gestures are socially expected. For Decker, the essence of queerplatonic attraction is its ambiguous position in relation to normative categories: she writes that QPR "is a platonic relationship, but it is 'queered' in some way—not friends, not romantic partners, but something else".

See also
Passage 5:
Ain't Nothin' Stoppin' Us Now
Ain't Nothin' Stoppin' Us Now is an album by Tower of Power released in 1976, the band's first record on Columbia Records. Ron Beck takes up the drummers spot after David Garibaldi exited for a second time.
This also would be the last album to feature bassist Francis "Rocco" Prestia as he would go on an extended hiatus from the band until his return in 1986. It is also the only album to feature vocalist Edward McGee.

Release history
In addition to the standard 2 channel stereo version the album was also released by Columbia in a 4 channel quadraphonic version in 1976 on LP and 8-track tape. The quad LP was encoded with the SQ matrix.
This album was reissued in the UK on the Super Audio CD format in 2016 by Dutton Vocalion. This release contains the complete stereo and quad recordings.

Track listing
"Ain't Nothin' Stoppin' Us Now" (Emilio Castillo, Stephen "Doc" Kupka, David Bartlett) – 3:58
"By Your Side" (Edward McGee, Clifford Coulter) – 4:30
"Make Someone Happy" (Ron E. Beck, Keith Rogers) – 2:47
"Doin' Alright" (Bruce Conte, Coleman Head) – 4:48
"Because I think the World Of You" (Stephen "Doc" Kupka, Frank Biner) – 	3:00
"You Ought To Be Havin' Fun" (Hubert Tubbs, Emilio Castillo, Stephen "Doc" Kupka) – 3:06
"Can't Stand To See The Slaughter" (Stephen "Doc" Kupka, Emilio Castillo) – 2:47
"It's So Nice" (T. Castillo, Emilio Castillo, David Bartlett, Stephen "Doc" Kupka, Frank Biner) – 5:39
"Deal With It" (Chester Thompson) – 3:20
"While We Went To The Moon" (Stephen "Doc" Kupka, David Bartlett, Emilio Castillo) – 4:24

Personnel
Tower of Power

Edward McGee – lead vocals
Chester Thompson – acoustic piano, Fender Rhodes, clavinet, organ, Moog synthesizer, bass pedals, backing vocals, horn arrangements (7, 9, 10), string arrangements and conductor (10)
Bruce Conte – guitars, backing vocals
Francis Rocco Prestia – bass guitar
Ron E. Beck – drums, percussion, backing vocals
Stephen "Doc" Kupka – baritone saxophone
Lenny Pickett – alto saxophone, tenor saxophone, Lyricon, tenor sax solo (1, 2)
Emilio Castillo – tenor saxophone, backing vocals
Mic Gillette – trombone, bass trombone, trumpet, flugelhorn, baritone horn, backing vocals, "superbone" solo (10)
Greg Adams – trumpet, flugelhorn, backing vocals, horn arrangements (1-6, 8), string arrangements and conductor (2, 4, 5, 8), flugelhorn solo (3)Additional musicians

Bill Lamb – trombone (2), trumpet (2), flugelhorn (2)
Tower of Power – horn arrangements (1, 8)
Patricia Henley – backing vocals (1, 2, 4, 5, 6)
Melba Joyce – backing vocals (1, 2, 4, 5, 6)
Ivory Stone – backing vocals (1, 2, 4, 5, 6)
Carol Rogers – backing vocals (3, 9, 10)

Production
Emilio Castillo – producer
Tower of Power – producers
Alan Chinowsky – production assistant, engineer, mixing
Bob Edwards – engineer, assistant engineer
Jim Gaines – mixing
Rich Ehrman – assistant engineer, mix assistant
Bruce Steinberg – art direction, design, photographyStudios

Recorded at Kendun Recorders (Burbank, California); Record Plant, Los Angeles (California); Record Plant, Sausalito (California); CBS Studios (San Francisco, California).
Mixed at Record Plant, Sausalito.
Passage 6:
Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick
"Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick / Ningyo" is a song by Japanese singer Namie Amuro from her eighth studio album Play (2007). It was released as a single on May 17, 2006, by Avex Trax, as the album's second single. Although she has had Japanese song titles prior to signing with Avex Trax, "Ningyo" or "人魚" which means mermaid, is her first with the label. "Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick" is featured on the album Play, although the latter A-side, "Ningyo" or "人魚", was excluded.

Background
In 1994 Amuro appeared in the drama "Toki wo Kakeru Shoujo" which used the original "Ningyo" as its ending theme song.
During the release of Queen of Hip-Pop (2005) to "White Light / Violet Sauce" (2005), Namie predominantly worked with producer/songwriter, Nao'ymt. This single reunites her with producers T.Kura and Michico who crafted many of her early R&B hits in 2003. "Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick," produced by the pair has been described as a funky summer dance tune. The other a-side, "Ningyo," is a cover of Japanese artist, Nokko, who made the song a massive hit in 1994, and is a theme song of TV drama "Toki o Kakeru Shojo" in which Amuro played a younger sister of Yuki Uchida who is a leading actor.
For the production of the music video for "Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick", Namie teamed up with American choreographer Shawnette Heard. Shawnette Heard has danced and choreographed routines for many of the world's biggest musical artists including Christina Aguilera, Janet Jackson, Michael Jackson, Madonna, Ricky Martin, Mýa, and many more.
On May 17, 2006, along with the release of the single her complete solo catalog was released to iTunes Japan. Immediately afterwards, "Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick" and "Ningyo" ranked #4 and #6 respectively.

Commercial endorsements
"Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick" was used in commercials for ringtone service sites, Mu-Mo and Iromelo Mix DX. "Ningyo" was also used in commercials for Mu-Mo.

Music video
The promotional video for "Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick" debuted on music channel, VMC on May 1, 2006. Directed by longtime collaborator, Masashi Muto, the video focuses entirely on a dance routine choreographed by Shawnette Heard. It is also reminiscent of Kylie Minogue's "Can't Get You Out of My Head" (2001) as a majority of it is filmed in a dark room entirely adorned in lights. It was also filmed on top of a skyscraper roof engulfed in lights from the skyscrapers in the background. The video was named VMC's "Video of the Month" for May and was played in heavy rotation on the channel.
A promotional video for "Ningyo" was also filmed and premiered on the music video outlet M-ON on May 9, 2006. Based on the story of The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter, the video begins with a shot of a full moon that morphs into window. The window opens to show Amuro sitting on a rock before a mural. It transitions to a scene of her on a bridge grasping the moon from the sky. For the final scene, Amuro is again sitting in a dense bamboo forest before the window closes. The video ends with her becoming part of the mural in the opening scene. The video is unlike any of Amuro's previous videos as it portrays her in a distinctly Japanese manner.

Track listing
Personnel
"Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick"
Namie Amuro – vocals
Michico – background vocals
Producers – T.Kura & Michico
Arranger – T.Kura
Choreographer – Shawnette Heard
Director – Masashi Muto

"Ningyo"
Namie Amuro – vocals
Nao'ymt – background vocals
Producers – Nao'ymt
Arranger – Nao'ymt
Director – Masashi Muto

Live performances
Can't Sleep, Can't Eat, I'm Sick
May 11, 2006 – Utaban
May 15, 2006 – Hey! Hey! Hey!
May 19, 2006 – Music Station
May 20, 2006 – CDTV
May 26, 2006 – Music Fighter
May 28, 2006 – MTV VMAJ 2006 Red Carpet Show
June 5, 2006 – SMAPxSMAP
September 25, 2006 – Hey! Hey! Hey! 13th Year Special

Charts
Passage 7:
Erin Pitt
Erin Michelle Pitt (born September 22, 1999) is a Canadian actress, known for her trio of roles in the horror film Silent Hill: Revelation, where she played Dark Alessa, Alessa Gillespie, and the younger Sharon DaSilva. Pitt's first leading role was in the 2013 film Against the Wild as Hanna Wade. She also played the title role in the 2014 made-for-television film An American Girl: Isabelle Dances Into the Spotlight. Pitt is a voice actress and is known for her roles in the television series The 99 as Samda the Invulnerable and Evie in the television series Mike the Knight.

Life and career
Pitt was born in Hamilton, Ontario, one of six siblings. She has two sisters and three brothers. She has attended the Hamilton Academy of Performing Arts, where she studies acting, singing and dancing, and has performed with the Hamilton City Ballet.Pitt first acted in a Paperoni toy commercial in 2008. In 2010 she has a role in the short film Rick Mercer — Canadian Action Plan. The same year she was cast in the film You Lucky Dog as the character Erin. Following this she acted in the film Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam as Junior Rocker Audrey.Her first major film was 2012's Silent Hill: Revelation, in which she played the triple roles of Alessa Gillespie, Dark Alessa, and the younger Sharon DaSilva. Pitt appeared on the cover of Fangoria magazine that year as Dark Alessa. She then had the major starring role Hannah Wade in Against the Wild, released in 2014.In 2014 Pitt starred as Isabelle in the Universal Picture direct-to-DVD production An American Girl: Isabelle Dances Into the Spotlight. She also had the voice role of Evie in the animated series Mike the Knight.

Filmography
Awards and nominations
Passage 8:
Airplay (band)
Airplay was a short-lived American band, formed by David Foster and Jay Graydon. The band released a self-titled album in 1980, containing "Nothin' You Can Do About It" (originally recorded by The Manhattan Transfer) and the original recording of the Earth, Wind & Fire hit "After the Love Has Gone", written by Foster and Graydon with Bill Champlin.
Graydon was asked about Airplay in a 2014 interview:
Did you guys ever envision Airplay becoming a full-time, touring type of band?
David wanted to tour and I didn't. A dumb move on my part.

Personnel
Principal members
Jay Graydon – vocals, guitar
David Foster – keyboards, background vocals
Tommy Funderburk – vocals

Backing musicians
Toto membersJeff Porcaro – drums
David Hungate – bass
Steve Lukather – additional rhythm guitars
Steve Porcaro – synthesizer programmingOthersWarren Wiebe
Mike Baird – drums
Ray Parker Jr. – additional rhythm guitars
Pete Robinson – synthesizer programming
Jerry Hey – trumpet & flugelhorn
Gary Grant – trumpet
Steve Madaio – trumpet
Bill Reichenbach Jr. – trombone
Charlie Loper – trombone
Lew McCreary – tromboneBackground vocalsBill Champlin
Tom Kelly
Max Gronenthal

Discography
Studio albums
Airplay (1980)

Singles
"Stranded" (1980)
"Nothin' You Can Do About It" (1980)
"Should We Carry On" (1981)
"Stressed Out (Close to the Edge)" in St. Elmo's Fire soundtrack (1985)
Passage 9:
Are You Ready for Love
"Are You Ready for Love" is a song recorded by English musician Elton John in 1977 and first released in the UK in 1979 as the first single from the EP The Thom Bell Sessions.  It was written by LeRoy Bell, Thom Bell and Casey James, and was originally produced in Philadelphia by Thom Bell, who had already produced a series of hits for the Spinners, the Delfonics and the Stylistics.  While the song "Mama Can't Buy You Love" from the EP charted in 1979, this song and the other track on the three-track 12-inch vinyl disc, "Three Way Love Affair", were only minor footnotes at the time.
In 1989, MCA released a 6-track CD, The Complete Thom Bell Sessions, which contained a different mix of "Are You Ready for Love" in place of the one that appeared on the original 1979 EP. (The original Thom Bell Sessions EP mix did, however, surface – along with the EP's other two original tracks – as a B-side to a UK CD-single of "The Last Song" in 1992, issued as Rocket/Phonogram EJSCB-30).

2003 version
In 2003, "Are You Ready for Love" was remixed by Ashley Beedle and released as a 12-inch vinyl single on 25 August 2003. It gave John the sixth No. 1 hit of his career when it topped the UK Singles Chart in the first week of its 2003 re-release, following his performance of the song in a television advertisement promoting the new 2003–04 football season for Sky Sports. The 2003 single's B-side is "Three Way Love Affair" (from the original EP) and also the full-length 1979 version of "Are You Ready for Love". On some CD versions, the CD also contains a QuickTime version of a video for the song, with recording studio footage from 1977 with John recording his vocals.
Various hit R&B vocalists of the late 1970s, including Bell and James, MFSB and the Spinners with lead singer John Edwards, contributed backing and accompanying lead vocals, most prominent on the Thom Bell Sessions mixes of the song. In 1979, the Spinners also recorded a version of the song which charted at number 25 on the US Billboard R&B chart.
The music video, produced in a 1970s retro style, was directed by Kate Dawkins.

Track listings
UK, US, and Australian CD single
"Are You Ready for Love" ('79 radio edit)
"Are You Ready for Love" (full length 1979 version)
"Three Way Love Affair"
"Are You Ready for Love" (CD-ROM video)UK 12-inch single 1
A. "Are You Ready for Love" (full length '79 version)
B. "Are You Ready for Love" (Freeform Reform remix)UK 12-inch single 2
A. "Are You Ready for Love" ('79 original)
B. "Are You Ready for Love" (Ashley Beedle Love and Protection mono edit)UK cassette single
"Are You Ready for Love" ('79 radio edit)
"Are You Ready for Love" (full length 1979 version)
"Three Way Love Affair"European CD single
"Are You Ready for Love" ('79 radio edit)
"Are You Ready for Love" (full length 1979 version)US 12-inch single
A1. "Are You Ready for Love" (Linus Loves Strobelight mix)
A2. "Are You Ready for Love" (79 full length)
B1. "Are You Ready for Love" (Mylo's Road Map to Peace remix)
B2. "Are You Ready for Love" (Ashley Beedle Love and Protection mono re-edit)

Charts and certifications
Cover versions
In 2003, the Spinners reissued "Are You Ready for Love", featuring them on backing vocals. In 1977, the Spinners had recorded two versions of the track. One had all of the Spinners, the other with only lead singer John Edwards on vocals. Finally in 1979, the John Edwards version was released making it to number 42 on the UK Singles Chart.

In popular culture
"Are You Ready for Love" was featured on the European version of Donkey Konga 2.

See also
List of number-one dance singles of 2004 (U.S.)
Passage 10:
Back to the Future (soundtrack)
The music of the Back to the Future series is composed in conjunction with the development of several feature films and a stage musical, within the Back to the Future franchise created by Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale. All music in the franchise was composed by American composer Alan Silvestri, with The Musical being co-written with Glen Ballard.

Back to the Future (1985)
Soundtrack
Back to the Future: Music from the Motion Picture Soundtrack is the soundtrack album to the film of the same name, released on July 8, 1985, by MCA Records. The soundtrack includes two tracks from American composer Alan Silvestri's score for the film, two pop tracks from American rock band Huey Lewis and the News, two songs played by the fictional Marvin Berry and The Starlighters, one played by the fictional Marty McFly with The Starlighters, and two pop songs that are very briefly heard in the background of the film.
"The Power of Love" was released as the album's lead single in June 1985, becoming Huey Lewis and the News's first chart topper on the US Billboard Hot 100, as well as being certified Gold and nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song. The soundtrack spent nineteen weeks on the Billboard 200, peaking at number twelve in October 1985.

Development
American rock band Huey Lewis and the News performed "The Power of Love" and "Back in Time". Huey Lewis was approached to write a theme song for the film. He met with Bob Gale, Steven Spielberg, and Robert Zemeckis, from the film's production team, who intended that the band be Marty McFly's favorite band. Though flattered, Lewis did not want to participate because he did not know how to write film songs and did not want to write one called "Back to the Future". Zemeckis assured Lewis he could write any song he wanted. Lewis agreed to submit the next song he wrote, which was "The Power of Love". The lyrics do not make any mention of the film's storyline.Lewis was asked by Zemeckis to write one more song for the film's end credits, which came to be "Back in Time". Unlike "The Power of Love", the lyrics for "Back in Time" center around the movie's story points. In an interview with People in 2015, Lewis states: "Sean [Hopper], [Chris] Hayes and I put together "Back in Time" – and it turned out that it's actually quite easy to write for film! In a way, it's easier, in that you don't have to invest yourself in it. So that was a lot of fun, actually"."Johnny B. Goode", written by Chuck Berry, is performed by the characters Marty McFly, and Marvin Berry and the Starlighters in the film, with lead vocals by Mark Campbell as Marty McFly, Harry Waters Jr. as Marvin Berry, and the guitar solo by Tim May. Campbell and May received a "special thanks" acknowledgment in the film's end credits, with the recording credit going to the fictional characters. Campbell did not receive credit as the filmmakers wanted to create the illusion that Fox was singing. When music supervisor Bones Howe learned of this, he secured Campbell a small percentage of the soundtrack revenue as compensation. Berry withheld permission to use "Johnny B. Goode" until the day before filming, and was paid $50,000 for the rights.

In the film
In the film, Marvin Berry, a fictitious cousin of Chuck Berry, phones Chuck and lets him listen to the music. The real "Johnny B. Goode" was released in 1958, three years after the time it is played in the film.Huey Lewis portrays a high-school band audition judge who rejects Marty McFly's band, the "Pinheads", as they perform an instrumental hard rock version of "The Power of Love". Lewis mentioned that his character was inspired by a Chrysalis Records executive. "Time Bomb Town", "Heaven Is One Step Away", and "Back in Time" are very briefly played in the background in some scenes during the film; "Back in Time" is additionally played in full in the film's end credits.

Track listing
^a  Lead vocals provided by Harry Waters Jr.
^b  Lead vocals provided by Mark CampbellSongs in the film but not included on the soundtrack album:
"The Washington Post" – composed by John Philip Sousa
"Mr. Sandman" – performed by The Four Aces
"The Ballad of Davy Crockett" – performed by Fess Parker
"Pledging My Love" – performed by Johnny Ace
"Out the Window" – Performed by Edward Van HalenThe tracks are not presented in the order they appear in the film. In chronological order, the track listing goes: 1, 2, 7, the first 90 seconds of 6, 8, 9, 10, the remainder of 6, 4, 5, and 3. "Back to the Future Overture" consists of the following cues, as released in its original form, on the subsequent score album:

Marty's Letter
Clocktower
'85 Lone Pine Mall

Charts
Certifications
Film score
Back to the Future: Intrada Special Collection was released by Intrada Records on November 24, 2009, and contains Alan Silvestri's complete score for Back to the Future. It is a two-disc release: the first disc contains the complete orchestral score for the film, along with two source cues that Silvestri wrote. The second disc contains alternate approaches that Silvestri took with a large portion of the score, with a darker and more serious tone. The two-disc set had a limited release of 10,000 units and sold nearly 6,000 units by the end of January 2010.The soundtrack was reissued on October 12, 2015, as a single-disc release, titled Back to the Future: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack (Expanded Edition), to commemorate the film's 30th anniversary. This release only contains the music on disc one of the initial limited two-disc set.

Development
Alan Silvestri had previously worked with director Robert Zemeckis on the score for Romancing the Stone. In composing the score, the only direction Zemeckis gave him was "it's got to be big". Silvestri used an orchestral score to create a sound that contrasted with the small-town setting and the significant time-changing events occurring within it, and developed a heroic theme that was designed to be instantly recognizable in just a few notes.For moments in the film where Silvestri's score was shortened (i.e. the final moments of "Einstein Disintegrated" and "Peabody Barn; Marty Ditches DeLorean"), replaced with source music ("Town Square") or unused ("Logo"), the full score cue is presented as originally recorded.
The themes from the score have since been included in the scores of the film's sequels, in Back to the Future: The Ride, and used as ambient music at Universal Studios theme parks.

Track listing
Disc 1: The Complete Original Motion Picture Soundtrack

"Logo"
"DeLorean Reveal"
"Einstein Disintegrated"
"'85 Twin Pines Mall"
"Peabody Barn; Marty Ditches DeLorean"
"'55 Town Square"
"Lorraine's Bedroom"
"Retrieve DeLorean"
"1.21 Jigowatts"
"The Picture"
"Picture Fades"
"Skateboard Chase"
"Marty's Letter"
"George to the Rescue – Pt. 1"
"Marvin Be-Bop"
"George to the Rescue – Pt. 2"
"Tension; The Kiss"
"Goodnight Marty"
"It's Been Educational; Clocktower"
"Helicopter"
"'85 Lone Pine Mall"
"4x4"
"Doc Returns"
"Back to the Future"Disc 2: The Creation of a Classic... alternate Early Sessions

"DeLorean Reveal"
"Einstein Disintegrated"
"Peabody Barn"
"Marty Ditches DeLorean"
"'55 Town Square #1"
"'55 Town Square #2"
"Retrieve DeLorean"
"1.21 Jigowatts"
"The Picture"
"Skateboard Chase"
"George to the Rescue"
"Tension; The Kiss"
"Clocktower"
"'85 Lone Pine Mall"
"Doc Returns"
"Ling Ting Ring"

Back to the Future Part II (1989)
Back to the Future Part II: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the film score to the 1989 film of the same name, the second installment in the Back to the Future trilogy. It was released under MCA Records on November 22, 1989, and features most of the film score by American composer Alan Silvestri. AllMusic rated it four-and-a-half stars out of five. Unlike the previous soundtrack, it only contains the musical score by Silvestri, none of the vocal songs featured throughout the film are included.
Intrada Records reissued the soundtrack as a two-disc expanded edition on October 12, 2015, in commemoration of the first film's 30th anniversary. The soundtrack includes the complete score (22 tracks) on disc one and an arrangement of alternate cues and source music on disc two.

Track listings
Standard edition

"Main Title"
"The Future"
"Hoverboard Chase"
"A Flying DeLorean?"
"My Father!"
"Alternate 1985"
"If They Ever Did"
"Pair O' Docs"
"The Book"
"Tunnel Chase"
"Burn The Book"
"Western Union"
"End Title"Expanded edition – Disc 1: The Film Score"

"Back to Back / It's Your Kids"
"Main Title (extended version)"
"The Future"
"Chicken / Hoverboard Chase"
"A Flying DeLorean?"
"I'm in The Future / Biff Steals DeLorean"
"Chicken Needles / Jenn Sees Jenn"
"Biff's World / 27th Floor"
"My Father!"
"Alternate 1985"
"Gray's Sports Almanac / If They Ever Did"
"Something Inconspicuous"
"You'll Never Lose / Old New DeLorean"
"Pair O' Docs"
"The Book"
"Nobody / Tunnel Chase"
"Burn The Book"
"He's Gone"
"Western Union"
"I'm Back / End Logo"
"The West"
"End Title"Expanded edition – Disc 2: Alternates

"Back to Back (alternate)"
"Main Title (alternate)"
"The Future (alternate)"
"Hoverboard Chase (alternate)"
"A Flying DeLorean? (alternate)"
"Biff's World (alternate)"
"If They Ever Did (alternate segment)"
"You'll Never Lose (alternate)"
"Western Union (alternate #1)"
"I'm Back (alternate #1)"
"Western Union (alternate #2)"
"I'm Back (alternate #2)"
"End Logo (alternate)"
"The West (alternate)"
"End Title (alternate)"

Back to the Future Part III (1990)
Back to the Future Part III: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the film score to the film of the same name, the third and final installment in the Back to the Future trilogy. It was released under Varèse Sarabande on May 29, 1990, and features most of the film score by American composer Alan Silvestri. The soundtrack includes the acoustic instrumental version of the song "Doubleback" as performed during the film, but does not include the original ZZ Top version of the song played in the end credits.
Varèse Sarabande reissued the soundtrack as a two-disc expanded edition on October 12, 2015, in commemoration of the film's 25th anniversary. The soundtrack includes the complete score (26 tracks) in chronological order on disc one, and an arrangement of alternate cues, source music and acoustic renditions of traditional folk songs on disc two.

Track listings
Standard edition

"Main Title"
"It's Clara (The Train, Part II)"
"Hill Valley"
"The Hanging"
"At First Sight"
"Indians"
"Goodbye Clara"
"Doc Returns"
"Point of No Return (The Train, Part III)"
"The Future Isn't Written"
"The Showdown"
"Doc to the Rescue"
"The Kiss"
"We're Out of Gas"
"Wake Up Juice"
"A Science Experiment (The Train, Part I)"
"Doubleback (acoustic instrumental version)"
"End Credits"25th Anniversary edition – Disc 1: The Film Score

"Back to Back / Court House"
"Main Title"
"Into the Mine / Tombstone / It's Me"
"Warmed Up"
"Indians (film version)"
"Safe and Sound"
"Hill Valley"
"The Hanging"
"We're Out of Gas"
"There is No Bridge / Doc to the Rescue"
"At First Sight"
"Yellow"
"The Kiss"
"You Talkin' to Me?"
"The Future Isn't Written"
"Goodbye Clara"
"What's Up Doc / Marty Gallops / To the Future"
"Wake Up Juice"
"Callin' You Out / Count Off"
"The Showdown / The Kick"
"A Science Experiment (The Train – Part I)"
"It's Clara (The Train – Part II)"
"Point of No Return (The Train – Part III)"
"It's Destroyed / Back to the Girlfriend / It's Erased"
"Doc Returns"
"End Credits25th Anniversary edition – Disc 2: Alternates

"Back to Back / Court House (alternate)"
"I'm Back / Main Title (alternate)"
"Into the Mine / Tombstone (alternate)"
"Warmed Up (alternate)"
"Indians (alternate)"
"The Hanging (alternate)"
"Goodbye Clara (alternate segment)"
"Count Off (alternate)"
"The Kick (alternate)"
"Doc's Return (alternate)"
"Clock Dedication / Battle Cry of Freedom"
"Doubleback (extended version)"
"Turkey in the Straw"
"My Darling Clementine"
"Saloon Piano Melody"
"Arkansas Traveler"
"Devil's Dream"
"Pop Goes the Weasel"
"Virginia Reel (Tip-Top)"
"I'm Back (alternate #2)"
"Into the Mine (alternate #2)"
"Indians (alternate #2)"
"Doc Returns (alternate #2)"On the standard edition, the tracks are not presented in the order they appear in the film. In chronological order, the track listing goes 1, 6, 3, 4, 14, 12, 5, 17, 13, 10, 7, 15, 11, 16, 2, 9, 8, and 18.
Songs in the film not included on the soundtrack album:
"Doubleback" (original version) – performed by ZZ Top
"The Power of Love" – performed by Huey Lewis and the News

The Back to the Future Trilogy
The Back to the Future Trilogy is a soundtrack compilation album, released by Varèse Sarabande on September 21, 1999. The album is a compilation of Alan Silvestri compositions from all three Back to the Future film scores, as well the theme from Back to the Future: The Ride. Whilst the tracks from Part III are from the film's original soundtrack, the tracks for Part I, Part II and The Ride are re-recorded renditions performed by John Debney and the Royal Scottish National Orchestra at the Glasgow City Halls.

Track listing
Back to the Future: The Musical (2020)
Back to the Future: The Musical (Original Cast Recording) is the cast recording of the musical of the same name, with music and lyrics by Alan Silvestri and Glen Ballard, and a book by Bob Gale. Recorded by the musical's original West End cast, it was released by Sony Music's Masterworks Broadway imprint on March 11, 2022. The musical's score was nominated for the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Original Score or New Orchestrations in 2022.

Background
The Back to the Future website originally announced on October 21, 2020 ("Back to the Future Day") that a cast recording of the West End production will be released in summer 2021. The announcement was accompanied by the release of Dobson's rendition of "Back in Time", which was originally written for and featured in the first film, in addition to the original track "Put Your Mind to It". The cast recording was originally set to be released on November 26, 2021, but was delayed several times, eventually releasing on March 11, 2022.

Track listing
Passage 11:
Pulse (1988 film)
Pulse is a 1988 American science-fiction horror film written and directed by Paul Golding, drawing influence from previous works of science fiction and horror, and starring Cliff De Young, Roxanne Hart, Joseph Lawrence, Matthew Lawrence, and Charles Tyner. The film's title refers to a highly aggressive and intelligent pulse of electricity that terrorizes the occupants of a suburban house in Los Angeles, California. The film was produced through Columbia Pictures and the Aspen Film Society and distributed by Columbia Pictures. The titular Pulse and its accompanying elements were designed by Cinema Research Corporation.

Plot
A highly aggressive, paranormal intelligence thriving within the electrical grid system of Los Angeles, California is moving from house to house. It terrorizes the occupants by taking control of the appliances, killing them or causing them to wreck the house in an effort to destroy it. Once this has been accomplished, it travels along the power lines to the next house, and the terror restarts. Having thus wrecked one household in a quiet, suburban neighborhood, the pulse finds itself in the home of a boy's divorced father whom he is visiting. It gradually takes control of everything, injuring the stepmother, and trapping father and son, who must fight their way out.

Cast
Cliff De Young as Bill Rockland
Roxanne Hart as Ellen Rockland
Joey Lawrence as David Rockland
Matthew Lawrence as Stevie
Charles Tyner as Old Man Holger
Dennis Redfield as Pete
Robert Romanus as Paul
Myron Healey as Howard
Michael Rider as Foreman
Jean Sincere as Ruby
Terry Beaver as Policeman
Greg Norberg as Policeman
Tim Russ as Policeman

Release
The film was promoted by the taglines "It traps you in your house...then pulls the plug," "In every second of every day, it improves our lives. And in a flash, it can end them," and also "the ultimate shocker."

Production
The film was produced by Aspen Film Society, a film production company founded by Steve Martin and William E. McEuen.Paul Golding got the idea for Pulse from two unrelated events with the first being when the screenwriter Caleb Deschanel spent the night in his house and told him that at night he’d been listening to “the sounds of the house…..the house was alive and it was taking care of me“, and the second was when he heard about a computer that reprogrammed itself .Golding wrote the screenplay under the working titles of House, Tract and Currents in 1981 but couldn’t get it made until Columbia eventually took it on seven years later. David Morse and Tommy Lee Jones both auditioned for the role of Bill but lost to Cliff De Young. Production was completed a day early and $1 million dollars under its $6 million dollar budget, and as a result were able to afford Oxford Scientific Films to do many of the special effects.

Release
David V. Picker, the head of Paramount Pictures at the time, was impressed by the film and intended to position it as a wide release, but changes in studio management curtailed this and it was only released theatrically in Texas and Oklahoma, while it went straight to video elsewhere. The movie did however become a success on video.

Reception
Pulse has a 64% approval rating at the online review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes based on 14 reviews.

Music
The musical score for Pulse was composed by Jay Ferguson, who also composed "Pictures of You" from the soundtrack to The Terminator, and the film score to A Nightmare on Elm Street 5: The Dream Child.
Passage 12:
Nothin' My Love Can't Fix
"Nothin' My Love Can't Fix" is a song by American actor and singer Joey Lawrence, released as the first single from his self-titled debut album on February 15, 1993, by MCA Records subsidiary Impact Records. Written by Lawrence, Alexandra Forbes and Eric Beall and produced by Forbes, Beall, Steve Barri and Tony Peluso, "Nothin' My Love Can't Fix" is Lawrence's most successful single, peaking at number 19 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and number 10 on the Billboard Mainstream Top 40. It also reached number 13 in the United Kingdom, number 22 in Ireland, number 50 in Canada and number 68 in Australia.

Background
"Nothin' My Love Can't Fix" was written by Joey Lawrence, Alexandra Forbes, and Eric Beall. The song was written when Lawrence was approximately fifteen years old.

Composition
According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Publishing, the song is written in the key of F major and is set in time signature of common time with a tempo of 108 beats per minute. Lawrence's vocal range spans three octaves, from F3 to F♯6.

Chart performance
In the United States, "Nothin' My Love Can't Fix" debuted at number 68 on the Billboard Hot 100 for the issue dated March 6, 1993. The song spent 20 weeks on the chart, reaching its peak position of number 19 for the issue dated May 8, 1993. On the 1993 year-end chart, the song achieved a position of number 92.

Music video
The video premiered on February 15, 1993, during an episode of Blossom. Prior to its broadcast, the video was promoted through advertisements on MTV and NBC. The music video received heavy airplay on many outlets, including MTV, and Lawrence was invited to perform on MTV Spring Break, The Arsenio Hall Show, and Top of the Pops.

Track listings and formats
Personnel
Personnel are adapted from the Joey Lawrence album liner notes.
Joey Lawrence – vocals, writing
Steve Barri – production
Alexandra Forbes – production, writing
Eric Beall – production, writing
Tony Peluso – production, vocal recording, mixing
Steve Skinner – keyboards, drum programming
Fred Tenny – recording
Axel Niehaus – assistant recording engineer
Fred Kelly – assistant mixing engineer
Julie Barri – production assistance
Steve Hall – mastering

Charts
Release history
In popular culture
"Nothin' My Love Can't Fix" was used as the end-title theme for the 1993 film Cop and a Half.
Passage 13:
Can't Live with You, Can't Live Without You
"Can't Live with You, Can't Live Without You" is a duet between Billy Newton-Davis and Celine Dion, released as a single in July 1989 in Canada. The song was featured on Newton-Davis' album Spellbound. "Can't Live with You, Can't Live Without You" was later included on Dion's Japanese maxi-single "Unison" (1991). It was written by Dan Hill who also wrote for Dion "Seduces Me" on her 1996 album Falling into You.

Background
The "Can't Live with You, Can't Live Without You" music video received a MuchMusic Video Award for Best MOR Video in 1990.The song was Dion's second commercial English single after her 1985 "Listen to the Magic Man". It reached number 41 on the Canadian Singles Chart and number 12 on the Adult Contemporary Chart. In Quebec, it peaked at number 19.Dion performed this song during her Unison Tour.

Track listings and formats
Canadian 7" single"Can't Live with You, Can't Live Without You" – 4:16
"Stop Me (Before I Dream Again)" – 3:40

Charts
Release history
Passage 14:
I Still Can't Get Over Loving You
"I Still Can't Get Over Loving You" is a 1983 song written and performed by Ray Parker Jr. It was the lead single from his Woman Out of Control album of the same year, and it reached #12 on the Billboard Hot 100 in early 1984. It was Parker's fifth top 20 hit, the sixth being 1984's "Ghostbusters".

Background
The song is an up-tempo ballad with electronic instruments.
While initially the song speaks of lost love and an ended relationship, the lyrics gradually take a considerably more sinister tone, ultimately implying that the man either is stalking his former girlfriend, or potentially preparing to do harm to her. A turning point in the tone occurs when Parker borrows a line from  The Police's "Every Breath You Take", "Every breath you take, I'll be watching you." It is summarily followed by closing lines which indicate that the relationship has taken a dark turn:  "There's no way that this thing is through, no; Not yet, I ain't through lovin' you; I'm gettin' mad, girl, don't you ever try to leave, no, no; It'll be the last thing you'll ever do."

Charts
Weekly charts
Year-end charts
Passage 15:
You Can't Beat Love
You Can't Beat Love is a 1937 American comedy film directed by Christy Cabanne and written by Maxwell Shane and David Silverstein. The film stars Preston Foster, Joan Fontaine, Herbert Mundin, William Brisbane and Alan Bruce. The film was released on June 25, 1937.

Plot
Jimmy Hughes (Preston Foster) is a fun-loving carouser who can't resist a dare. He is awakened by his gentleman's gentleman Jasper (Herbert Mundin) after a drunken evening in which he misappropriated a milk truck, and instructs Jasper to see that the damages (thirty dollars' worth of lost milk) are paid and the truck is returned. Accompanied by Jasper, Jimmy then fulfills a bet by putting in a day of hard work digging ditches in formal wear, good-naturedly tangling with other crew members in the process. He donates his winnings to a children's charity.
When a campaign truck stops by the site to dispense free cake and solicit support for Mayor Olson's re-election, Jimmy engages in a heckling match with a campaign worker who proves to be the mayor's daughter, Trudy Olson (Joan Fontaine). Trudy angrily suggests that he throw his hat in the ring, and in a bluff, he declares that he will.
When the newspapers run with the story, Jimmy is caught by surprise and the mayor's campaign is concerned. Trudy visits Jimmy at his home with a cake to patch things up, and as he pledges to clear up the misunderstanding, the two become mutually attracted. Trudy accompanies Jimmy to the newspaper office the next day to help him announce his withdrawal, but she mistakenly dares him to run for real, obliging him to do so.
Jimmy pledges a clean campaign, but still ruffles Trudy at times as he continues to pursue her. Things begin to go well between them again as Jimmy helps Trudy save a child who has stolen ice from an ice truck from punishment, and they steal a fun ride on the back of the truck together.
The corrupt police chief, who works for the mayor, secretly attempts to frame Jimmy by luring him to a phony love nest with a hired woman (Barbara Pepper) and a waiting photographer, but catches Jimmy's friend instead. In retaliation, Jimmy recruits the woman's jealous boyfriend, a gangster, to involve the police chief in a citywide gambling ring.
As the mayor comes under criticism for the resulting scandal, Trudy visits Jimmy's campaign office and overhears him colluding with the gamblers. At a debate on election eve, she accuses him of being behind the ring. Jimmy produces a check designating all gambling proceeds to a children's charity, and plays a recording for the crowd of the police chief agreeing to participate in the criminal profits. He also has a recording of the mayor angrily confronting the police chief, proving the mayor's innocence. Jimmy then endorses the mayor for re-election as the guilty parties are arrested. The press asks for a photo of Jimmy kissing Trudy, and she dares him.

Cast
Preston Foster as James Ellsworth 'Jimmy' Hughes
Joan Fontaine as Trudy Olson
Herbert Mundin as Jasper 'Meadows' Hives
William Brisbane as Clem Bruner
Alan Bruce as Scoop Gallagher
Paul Hurst as Foreman Butch Mehaffey
Bradley Page as Dwight Parsons
Berton Churchill as Police Chief Brennan
Frank M. Thomas as Mayor Olson
Harold Huber as Pretty Boy Jones
Paul Guilfoyle as Louie the Weasel
Barbara Pepper as May 'Bubbles' Smith
Passage 16:
Can't Go for That
"Can't Go for That" is a song by Canadian recording artist Tamia. It was written by Missy Elliott, Brycyn Evans and Roosevelt "Bink" Harrell for her second studio album A Nu Day (2000), featuring main production from the latter with Elliottt and Evans serving as co-producers. Musically, the song includes an interpolation of "I Can't Go For That (No Can Do)" as performed by Hall & Oates.
"Can't Go for That" was released as the album's lead single in 2000 and peaked at number 84 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and 23 on Billboard's Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart. The single was remixed by Jonathan Peters. There is another remix version as the album bonus track which features 213 members Nate Dogg, Snoop Dogg and Warren G.

Music video
A music video for "Can't Go for That" was directed by Chris Hafner in the week of July 1, 2000. It was filmed in Los Angeles.

Track listings
Notes

^[a]  denotes co-producer
^[b]  denotes additional producer

Credits and personnel
Credits adapted from the liner notes of A Nu Day.
Co-producer – Brycyn Evans, Missy Elliott
Assistant engineer – Edith Luis
Mixing, recording – Bill Importico
Producer – Bink!

Charts
Weekly charts
Passage 17:
Can't Nobody
"Can't Nobody" is a song performed by American recording artist Kelly Rowland. It was written and produced by Rich Harrison for Rowland's solo debut album Simply Deep (2002). The song is built around a sample of "Let's Get Small" (1982) by American R&B band Trouble Funk. Due to the inclusion of the sample, band members Robert "Syke Dyke" Reed and Tony Fisher are also credited as songwriters. Musically, the uptempo track has been described as an "airy hip hop funk" song, that has Rowland describing an infatuation as she tries to convince the object of desire of her charms and advantages.
The song was released as the second single from Simply Deep on January 21, 2003, following lead "Stole" and Rowland's duet single "Dilemma" with Nelly from his album Nellyville (2002). While it widely failed to match the success of its predecessors, "Can't Nobody" reached the top-five in the United Kingdom and became a top-twenty hit in Australia, Denmark, Ireland, the Netherlands, and Scotland. In the US, the song entered Billboard's Mainstream Top 40. An accompanying music video was directed by Benny Boom and shot in Los Angeles, California in January 2003. In further promotion of the song, Rowland performed the song on television shows such as Top of the Pops and made it part of the setlist of her Simply Deeper Tour (2003).

Background
After the release of her former group Destiny's Child's 2001 album Survivor, Rowland launched a solo career when American rapper Nelly asked her to appear as a featured artist on his song "Dilemma". The record originally appeared on his album Nellyville (2002) and was released as its third single. An instant success, it became a worldwide number-one hit that year and prompted Rowland's label Columbia Records to advance the release date of her solo album from 2003 to late 2002 to capitalize on the success of "Dilemma". Rowland was forced to complete the album within a month.  "Can't Nobody" was written by producer and songwriter Rich Harrison. Known for his work on fellow Columbia Records signee Amerie's debut album All I Have (2002), the song marked his first collaboration with a Destiny's Child member. In contrast to his own production style and major parts of Simply Deep, which featured mid-tempo tracks and wide influences by pop and rock music, the track includes a beat driven but poppy and radio-friendly instrumental, involving elements from "Let's Get Small", a song written by Robert Reed and Tony Fisher and performed by Trouble Funk.

Critical reception
"Can't Nobody" received generally mixed reviews from music critics. AllMusic editor Jon O'Brien named the song one of the album's highlights along with "Stole", "Dilemma" and "Everytime You Walk Out That Door" and complimented the production on "Can't Nobody" due to its "clattering percussion". Chuck Taylor from Billboard found that "while the single has its charms, its skittish production and overly busy chorus tend to grate after a few spins, limiting its chances to go to the long haul." Sal Cinquemani of Slant compared the song to Rowland's previous single "Dilemma" and wrote: "'Can’t Nobody' features a catchy, retro hook and slick production, but Rowland’s voice isn’t as powerful as Whitney Houston’s or even Beyoncé Knowles's." Vibe journalist Craig Seymour named "Can’t Nobody" one of the better tracks on Simply Deep, calling it "a morsel of airy hip hop funk [...] But while the tune offers her a good rump-wiggling groove, it can't quite fill the need for an authentic identity."

Commercial performance
The song was first issued as the album's second single in the United States on January 21, 2003. However, "Can't Nobody" received little commercial response in Rowland's native, where it was less successful than previous single "Stole", debuting and peaking at number ninety-seven on the US Billboard Hot 100 and number seventy-two on Billboard's Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs, respectively. It also entered the US Mainstream Top 40, reaching number forty. The single fared better overseas, where it became Rowland's third consecutive top five hit on the UK Singles Chart, peaking at number five, as well as her ninth best-selling solo single as of November 2011. The song also entered the top ten of the Scottish Singles Chart, reaching number nine, and peaked within the top twenty in Denmark, Ireland, and the Netherlands. In Australia, "Can't Nobody" peaked at number thirteen and was eventually certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA), indicating sales in excess of 35,000 copies.

Music video
Rowland reteamed with "Dilemma" director Benny Boom to craft a music video for "Can't Nobody" which was shot in Los Angeles, California at the weekend of January 4, 2003. Filming locations include the Orpheum Theatre on Broadway and the Chinatown neighborhood, both set in the Downtown Los Angeles district. Joe Oz served as first assistant director, while production was helmed by Veronica Zelle for now defunct Gorilla Flix Productions. Main camera was operated by Paul Cameron. Upon its release, the music video for "Can't Nobody" was included on the European maxi-single as an enhanced video element. It was later also included on the Japanese edition of Destiny's Child's Destiny's Child World Tour concert DVD, released in 2003, as well as the 2004 Wal-Mart exclusive limited Destiny's Child's Fan Pack DVD which was released a week before the release of Destiny Fulfilled (2004).In the video, Rowland is waiting outside of the Orpheum Theatre nightclub for her boyfriend, who is surprising her with tickets for a fictional Simply Deep musical. She arrives after her boyfriend leaves and after buying a ticket for the musical and waiting for him to meet her, she is disturbed upon seeing a hologram of the two of them waiting in line together. Frustrated, Rowland walks around the Chinatown neighborhood seeing couples all around her until she comes across the Grand Star Jazz Club. She enters the club and begins enjoying herself while dancing until she sees her boyfriend nearby. She confronts him over his absence at the theatre, and he reveals he was going to surprise her with tickets to the musical. Rowland is relieved and after the two laugh over the misunderstanding, they both proceed to dance together in the club. The video ends with the two leaving the club to go watch the musical at the theatre. In a report surrounding the production of the short film, MTV News noted that the video was "a take-off of the Christian Slater flick True Romance."

Track listings
Credits and personnel
Credits adapted from the liner notes of Simply Deep.

Charts
Certifications
Release history