Passage 1:
Tuymazinsky District
Tuymazinsky District (Russian: Туймази́нский райо́н; Bashkir and Tatar: Туймазы районы, Tuymazı rayonı) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the fifty-four in the Republic of Bashkortostan, Russia. It is located in the west of the republic and borders with Sharansky District in the north, Buzdyaksky District in the east, Belebeyevsky District in the southeast and south, Yermekeyevsky District in the south, and with the Republic of Tatarstan in the west. The area of the district is 2,403 square kilometers (928 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Tuymazy (which is administratively separate from the district). As of the 2010 Census, the total population of the district was 64,389.

History
The district was established on August 20, 1930. On March 20, 1937, the district was split into two—Tuymazinsky and Kandrinsky—but that was reversed in 1956.

Administrative and municipal status
Within the framework of administrative divisions, Tuymazinsky District is one of the fifty-four in the Republic of Bashkortostan. It is divided into 18 selsoviets, comprising 113 rural localities. The town of Tuymazy serves as its administrative center, despite being incorporated separately as a town of republic significance—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts.As a municipal division, the district is incorporated as Tuymazinsky Municipal District, with the town of republic significance of Tuymazy being incorporated within it as Tuymazy Urban Settlement. Its eighteen selsoviets are incorporated as eighteen rural settlements within the municipal district. The town of Tuymazy serves as the administrative center of the municipal district as well.
Passage 2:
Chaunsky District
Chaunsky District (Russian: Ча́унский райо́н; Chukchi: Чаан район, Čaan rajon) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the six in Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, Russia. It is located on the northern shore of the autonomous okrug and borders with Iultinsky District in the northeast, Anadyrsky District in the southeast, and with Bilibinsky District in the south and west. The area of the district is 67,091 square kilometers (25,904 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Pevek. Population:  5,148 (2010 Census); 6,962 (2002 Census); 32,167 (1989 Census). The population of Pevek accounts for 80.8% of the district's total population.Chaunsky District is flat compared to other districts in the autonomous okrug. The land within the current boundaries was first discovered by non-indigenous people in the 18th century, and now the indigenous people of the district are a minority as ethnic Russians came to the area following a growth in mining.

Geography
The district is centered around the Chaunskaya Bay, on the shores of which Pevek, the administrative center of the district, is situated. The district's territory also includes Ayon Island, found at the entrance to the Chaunskaya Bay. There is an eponymous settlement on the island.
The district's territory stretches for 330 kilometers (210 mi) from north to south and for 290 kilometers (180 mi) from east to west. Cape Shelagsky is its northernmost point. Chaunsky District is significantly flatter than Bilibinsky District located to the west and contains large areas devoted to reindeer pasture.
Approximately 350 kilometers (220 mi) long, the Chaun River, which flows into Chaunskaya Bay, is the longest river in the whole autonomous okrug.There are a number of wetland areas of significance within the district. The most westerly of these is situated on the Kyttyk Peninsula and the mouth of the Rauchua River. This area is dominated by the Lower Rauchua delta and the alluvial plains of the Kyttyk Peninsula, from which Ayon Island is separated by the Maly Chaunsky Strait. The peninsula is almost completely covered in a complex system of lakes, ranging in size from small saline pools lying on a recently exposed marine terrace 1 to 2 m above sea level, near the coast, to lakes up to 1 km wide and 12 m deep on high level surfaces 10–15 m above sea level. In addition, the peninsula is scored by a number of rivers, the Eyukuul, Koz'mina, Rakvezan and Emykkyvian among the most significant.The Ust-Chaun area of the district also contains significant wetlands at the south end of Chaunskaya Bay, consisting mainly of an alluvial plain approximately 100 km wide and 60 km north to south. The wetlands at Ust-Chaun are similar in structure to those at the Rauchua / Kyttyk wetland, consisting of a landscape almost entirely filled with small lakes, those nearest Chaunskaya Bay are the smallest and shallowest (less than 70 cm deep) and those on more elevated ground being deeper at 1.5–3 m deep The Ust-Chaun region serves a fishing centre for the inhabitants of Rytkuchi, although this has lost its importance in recent years as stocks of Char have diminished, as a result of overfishing both for sale to the local Sovkhoz and as bait for trapping foxes.

Flora
There are approximately 200 different species of plant within the Rauchua / Kyttyk wetland area comprising a variety of steppe, boreal and arctic species, a number of which occur at the eastern limit of their natural habitat. In the Ust-Chaun area, there are even more recorded plant species, at 252., including a number of rare species.

Fauna
Humpback and chum salmon enter the lower reaches of the Rauchua. Several species of whitefish, grayling and smelt also live in the river or in the many surrounding lakes. Sticklebacks also live in the lakes along with Arctic char, although the community of char is infested with Acanthocephala. Similar fish exist in the Ust-Chaun region, and in addition to fish, the wetland is also home to the Siberian newt, which lives in the shrub-covered tundra near the delta.The Rauchua / Kyttyk wetland area is considered to be the easternmost extent of so-called "Kolyma fauna", such as the Terek sandpiper, brown shrike and scarlet rosefinch. The most common bird species in the Rauchua / Kyttyk wetland are the yellow-billed, black-throated and Pacific divers. One of the main reasons for the importance of the Rauchua / Kyttyk is the breeding population (figures as of 1994) of Bewick's swan (approximately 300 birds), the Pacific eider (approximately 3,000 birds) and the spectacled eider (approximately 2,000 birds). Spectacled and Pacific eider as well as black-throated and Pacific divers are also found in the Ust-Chaun region, though the Pacific eider is much more common on the Kyttyl Peninsula and near Apapelgino.Birds of prey are found in the Ust-Chaun area, with the rough-legged buzzard nesting in the area and species such as the goshawk and peregrine falcon visiting the area regularly. Their prey consists of a wide variety of small mammals and almost all mammals found in the tundra regions of the Russian Far East are found in the Ust-Chaun area, including a number of species of shrew, vole and lemming. Larger mammals include wild reindeer, wolves and brown bear.

Demographics
Approximately 85% of the district's population in 2003 were non-indigenous peoples. As with most of the districts in Chukotka, indigenous peoples are more often found in the scattered rural localities, while ethnic Russians are more often found in the urban areas. These people either migrated to the Far East, or are the descendants of those who did, enticed by the higher pay, large pensions, and more generous allowances permitted to those prepared to endure the cold and the isolation, or, more likely, were exiled here as a result of one of Stalin's purges, or were exiled here having been released from the Gulag. The existence of the port of Pevek in the district is a major reason for the presence of ethnic Russians.The indigenous people present in the district are almost exclusively Chukchi. An environmental impact study produced by Bema Gold for the Kupol gold project states that at the start of 2004, 846 of the districts inhabitants were of indigenous origin. Of these people, 841 were Chukchi, with 2 reported as Yupik, 2 Mansi and 1 Even comprising the remaining five indigenous individuals. The indigenous people of Chaunsky District reside mainly in Rytkuchi, Ayon and Yanranay.

History
18th and 19th centuries
The area of what is now Chaunsky District was first visited by non-indigenous people, when Karl Merk came across the Chaun River, as part of the overland element of the Billings Expedition—the expedition ordered by Catherine the Great and led by Englishman Joseph Billings in an attempt to find a true Northeast Passage.  Prior to the river's discovery by Merk, the Chaun River represented the westernmost boundary of the Chukchi land. Merk named the river Chavaveyam after Mount Chaun, from where the river springs.The Rauchua River was a place inhabited by mammoths in prehistoric times and was also the scene of a bloody battle between Chukchi herders and a combination of Yukaghirs and Evens during the 19th century. The name Rauchua comes from the Chukchi word "Ravchyvan", meaning place of a victory over a camp.

20th century
The district in its present form was founded in 1933. Gold and tin were discovered in the 1940s, which led to the first occurrences of industrial mining in the district in the 1950s. The effect of this growth in industry was that Chaunsky District became the first district in the region to have a road network constructed as well as an electricity grid. During World War II, the Chaunskaya Bay area of Chaunsky District was the most important tin producing area in the whole of the Soviet Union.

Economy
Industrial and administrative
Many of the populated places throughout Chukotka owe their existence to tin and gold mines, and deposits of these metals were first discovered in Chukotka in Chaunsky District in 1941. In 2002, the average monthly salary was just over 11,000 rubles per month, although agricultural wages were on average only around half that per month. Mining and ancillary services still form the major elements of the economy of Chaunsky District. There are two large mines and a number of small mines in the district, supported by a large trucking company.

Traditional and cultural
Compared to other districts in Chukotka, agricultural enterprise is not particularly well developed. There is only one farming brigade, Chaunskoye, employing just under 200 people. The brigade herds around 15,000 reindeer and is also involved in fishing.

Transportation
As a result of the development of the mining industry, Chaunsky District also has the most developed road transport network in Chukotka, with paved, unpaved, or snow roads leading from Pevek to all major population hubs. Pevek Airport, located about 14 kilometers (8.7 mi) from Pevek proper, provides a link for the region to Moscow. Pevek's port is the largest in Chukotka and is generally open for about two and a half months a year from mid-July to September.The transport infrastructure of the district is more developed compared to the rest of Chukotka; this in part is helped by the presence of Pevek. Pevek itself has the second largest airport in Chukotka after the Ugolny Airport and offers one of the few means of direct air travel to Moscow. Pevek is also the naval headquarters of the East Arctic during the short summer.

Administrative and municipal status
Within the framework of administrative divisions, Chaunsky District is one of the six in the autonomous okrug. The town of Pevek serves as its administrative center. The district does not have any lower-level administrative divisions and has administrative jurisdiction over one town, six urban-type settlements, and four rural localities, consisting of all the inhabited localities listed below in the "Inhabited localities" section, except for Billings, which is administratively subordinated to Iultinsky District.
As a municipal division, the district is incorporated as Chaunsky Municipal District and is divided into one urban settlement and three rural settlements.

Inhabited localities
Divisional source:Population source:*Administrative centers are shown in bold
Passage 3:
Shmidtovsky District
Shmidtovsky District (Russian: Шми́дтовский райо́н) was an administrative district (raion) of Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, Russia, which existed in 1973–2011. As a municipal division, it was, together with Iultinsky Administrative District, incorporated as Iultinsky Municipal District. It was located in the far north of the autonomous okrug and bordered with Iultinsky District in the east, Anadyrsky District in the south, and with Chaunsky District in the west. The area of the district was 70,900 square kilometers (27,400 sq mi). Its administrative center was the urban locality (an urban-type settlement) of Mys Shmidta. Population:  1,469 (2010 Census); 2,660 (2002 Census); 15,726 (1989 Census). The population of Mys Shmidta accounted for 33.5% of the district's total population.

History
Shmidtovsky District was founded in 1973. It was named after Otto Schmidt, a Soviet scientist. Beyond the mainland, the district also incorporated the UNESCO World Heritage Site, Wrangel Island, which straddles the 180° meridian, and its neighboring island Herald, which in 2004 was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Site list at the same time as Wrangel Island.The indigenous population made up around 28% of the total population of the district, which, although lower than in Chukotsky and Providensky Districts, was at the time around average in the autonomous okrug.
Signs of earlier habitation by indigenous peoples can be seen at several sites throughout the former district's territory. In the central parts of the region one can still see the Pegtymel rock drawings, where images were carved into the rock by the local inhabitants using quartz. Over a hundred more examples of ancient artwork can be seen on eleven of the Kaikuul cliffs, describing hunting and farming scenes as well as what is thought to be early references to Shamanism.

Economy
The main economic drivers were gold mining, traditional reindeer herding, and marine hunting. However, there was little mining done in the vicinity of Mys Shmidta, with the three main prospecting teams in the region (Polyarnaya, Arktikaand, and Shakhtar) being based in Leningradsky.

Transportation
Although much of the internal region of the district was given over to reindeer pasture, thus creating a significant area of wilderness, connections between the populated places along the coast were present. As with all areas of Siberia and the Russian Far East, there was very limited road transport. There is a road, however, linking Mys Shmidta with Egvekinot. There is also a 435-kilometer (270 mi) unpaved road between Mys Shmidta and Komsomolsky, of which 235 kilometers (146 mi) is unpaved road and the remaining 199 kilometers (124 mi) is snow road.In addition to local road transport, the district was also served by Mys Shmidta Airport, located immediately to the southwest of the settlement. The airport is now employed solely for civilian usage, providing flights to Anadyr. Flights are provided by Chukotavia. The runway is 2,450-meter (8,040 ft) long and 60-meter (200 ft) wide. The distance to Anadyr by air is 478 kilometers (297 mi).
Unlike airports such as the Provideniya Bay Airport, which has always been a civilian airport, or the Iultin Airport, which was constructed specifically to serve the needs of the remote mine nearby, the Mys Shmidta airport was initially part of the ring of forward staging bases used by the Arctic Control Group (OGA) prior to intercontinental ballistic missiles gaining favor as the primary means of long-range defense.

Status changes
Before May 2008, Shmidtovsky Administrative District was municipally incorporated as Shmidtovsky Municipal District. In May 2008, Iultinsky and Shmidtovsky Municipal Districts were merged, forming an enlarged Vostochny Municipal District. This change, however, did not affect the administrative aspect of these districts. Both Iultinsky and Shmidtovsky Administrative Districts continued to exist separately. In October 2008, the law mandating the change was amended and the name Vostochny was discarded with the combined municipal district being renamed Iultinsky Municipal District.
Shmidtovsky Administrative District was itself merged into Iultinsky Administrative District effective June 13, 2011.

Climate
The climate of the former Shmidtovsky District is more severe than in neighboring Alaska or even as in the neighboring districts and varies significantly throughout the year. Average July temperatures could range from +4 °C (39 °F) to +14 °C (57 °F), and January temperatures from −18 to −42 °C (0 to −44 °F). The lowest temperatures were characteristic for the western part of the region while storms and winds were frequent on the eastern coast. The summer was short but comparatively warm.

Divisions
Administrative divisions
Shmidtovsky Administrative District had administrative jurisdiction over two urban-type settlements (Mys Shmidta and Leningradsky) and two rural localities (Billings and Ryrkaypiy).

Municipal
Shmidtovsky Municipal District was abolished in 2008, and all of the municipal formations previously within the district became a part of Iultinsky Municipal District.
Passage 4:
Gmina Włodawa
Gmina Włodawa is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Włodawa County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland, on the border with Belarus and Ukraine. Its seat is the town of Włodawa, although the town is not part of the territory of the gmina.
The gmina covers an area of 243.75 square kilometres (94.1 sq mi), and as of 2006 its total population is 5,936.

Villages
Gmina Włodawa contains the villages and settlements of Korolówka, Korolówka-Kolonia, Korolówka-Osada, Krasówka, Luta, Okuninka, Orchówek, Połód, Różanka, Sobibór, Stawki, Suszno, Szuminka, Wołczyny, Żłobek Duży, Żłobek Mały and Żuków.

Neighbouring gminas
Gmina Włodawa is bordered by the town of Włodawa and by the gminas of Hanna, Hańsk, Wola Uhruska and Wyryki. It also borders Belarus and Ukraine.

See also
Sobibor extermination camp
Passage 5:
Shumerlinsky District
Shumerlinsky District  (Russian: Шу́мерлинский райо́н; Chuvash: Çĕмĕрле районӗ, Śĕmĕrle rayonĕ) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-one in the Chuvash Republic, Russia. It is located in the west of the republic and borders with Alikovsky and Krasnochetaysky Districts in the north, Vurnarsky District in the east, Ibresinsky and Poretsky Districts in the south, and with Nizhny Novgorod Oblast on the Sura River in the west. The area of the district is 1,047.6 square kilometers (404.5 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Shumerlya (which is not administratively a part of the district). Population: 10,765 (2010 Census); 13,298 (2002 Census); 16,187 (1989 Census).

History
The district was formed on January 9, 1935.

Administrative and municipal status
Within the framework of administrative divisions, Shumerlinsky District is one of the twenty-one in the republic. The town of Shumerlya serves as its administrative center, despite being incorporated separately as a town of republic significance—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts.As a municipal division, the district is incorporated as Shumerlinsky Municipal District. The town of republic significance of Shumerlya is incorporated separately from the district as Shumerlya Urban Okrug.

Notable residents
Valery Yardy (1948–1994), Olympic road cyclist
Passage 6:
Dnovsky District
Dnovsky District (Russian: Дно́вский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-four in Pskov Oblast, Russia. It is located in the east of the oblast and borders with Soletsky District of Novgorod Oblast in the northeast, Volotovsky District, also of Novgorod Oblast, in the east, Dedovichsky District in the south, and with Porkhovsky District in the west. The area of the district is 1,194 square kilometers (461 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Dno. Population: 13,341 (2010 Census); 16,048 (2002 Census); 20,110 (1989 Census). The population of Dno accounts for 67.9% of the district's total population.

Geography
Being a part of the Ilmen Depression, the district's landscape is essentially flat. The district lies in the basin of the Shelon River. The biggest rivers in the district, all of them being right tributaries of the Shelon, are the Dubyanka, the Polonka, and the Lyuta. A part of the Shelon itself flows through the district as well.

History
In the past, the area belonged to the Novgorod Republic. Two villages with the name of Dno (Bolshoye Dno and Maloye Dno) were first mentioned in chronicles in the 15th century. After the fall of the Novgorod Republic in 1478, the area was, together will the rest of Novgorod lands, annexed by the Grand Duchy of Moscow. It belonged to Shelonskaya Pyatina, one of the five pyatinas into which Novgorod lands were divided. In the 16th century, state-sponsored roads were built, and the area became one of the centers of yam, the road messenger system. In the course of the administrative reform carried out in 1708 by Peter the Great, the area was included into Ingermanland Governorate (known since 1710 as Saint Petersburg Governorate). In 1727, separate Novgorod Governorate was split off, and in 1772, Pskov Governorate (which between 1777 and 1796 existed as Pskov Viceroyalty) was established. In 1776, Porkhovsky Uyezd was transferred from Novgorod Governorate to Pskov Governorate. The area was a part of Porkhovsky Uyezd, and Dno was the seat of Dnovskaya Volost.
On August 1, 1927, the uyezds were abolished, and Dnovsky District was established, with the administrative center in the town of Dno. It included parts of former Porkhovsky Uyezd. The governorates were abolished as well, and the district became a part of Pskov Okrug of Leningrad Oblast. On July 23, 1930, the okrugs were also abolished, and the districts were directly subordinated to the oblast. Between August 1941 and February 1944, Dnovsky District was occupied by German troops. On August 23, 1944, the district was transferred to newly established Pskov Oblast.

Economy
Industry
The industrial enterprises in the district include two metalworking plants, a ceramic production plant, and a bakery.

Agriculture
The main agricultural specialization in the district is cattle breeding with meat and milk production. As of 2012, eight large- and mid-scale farms were operating in the district.

Transportation
Dno is an important railway station where two railways cross. One connects Bologoye and Pskov via Staraya Russa and runs from east to west. Another one connects St. Petersburg and Vitebsk and runs from north to south.
Dno is connected by roads with Soltsy, Porkhov, and Dedovichi. There are also local roads with bus traffic.

Culture and recreation
The district contains three cultural heritage monuments of federal significance and additionally twenty-six objects classified as cultural and historical heritage of local significance. The federally protected monuments are archeological sites.
Passage 7:
Niassa Reserve
Niassa Reserve is a nature reserve in Cabo Delgado Province and Niassa Province, Mozambique. Covering over 42,000 square kilometres (10,000,000 acres), it is the largest protected area in the country. The reserve is part of the Trans-Frontier Conservation Area and links to the Tanzanian Lukwika-Lumesule Game Reserve. It will connect to the Lake Niassa Reserve when it is completed.

History
Founded in 1954 while Mozambique was still Portuguese East Africa, Niassa did not receive effective protection until the end of the Mozambican Civil War with the signing of the Rome General Peace Accords. Since then, the Mozambican government has set up management systems in order to protect the ecology of northern Mozambique. 
The relative isolation and lack of development that protects the park also hurts its potential for tourism. Mozambican officials admit constraints to development of the park's appeal include "remoteness and difficult access ... lack of any established tourism infrastructure and the logistical hardship associated with starting an enterprise under these conditions."Since 2005, the protected area is considered a Lion Conservation Unit.

Borders
The northern border is formed by the Rovuma River, which also forms the border with Tanzania. Niassa Reserve is twice the size of Kruger National Park and comparable to the total area of Wales, Denmark or Massachusetts.

Ecosystem
Niassa is part of the Eastern miombo woodlands, which also encompasses parts of Tanzania and Malawi. The reserve is one of the largest miombo woodland preserves in the world, with miombo forest covering half of the preserve. The remainder is mostly open savannah, with some wetlands and isolated patches of forest. 95% of the preserve's biomass is vegetation, which includes 21 types of plant matter and 191 species of trees and shrubs.Niassa Preserve boasts an African wild dog population of over 350, significant for an endangered mammal with a global population estimated at 8000. The park boasts a sable antelope population of over 12000, an elephant population of 16000, over 400 bird species, and large populations of Cape buffalo, impala, wildebeest, zebra and leopards. The area has three endemic species - the Niassa wildebeest, Boehm's zebra, and Johnston's Impala.The reserve is home to Mecula Mountain, located at the center of the park with a height of 1,441 metres (4,728 ft).
Passage 8:
Minsk Region
Minsk Region, also known as Minsk Oblast or Minsk Voblasts (Belarusian: Мі́нская во́бласць, romanized: Minskaja voblasć, IPA: [ˈmʲinskaja ˈvobɫasʲtsʲ]; Russian: Минская о́бласть, romanized: Minskaya oblast), is one of the regions of Belarus. Its administrative center is Minsk, although it is a separate administrative territorial entity of Belarus. As of 2011, the region's population is 1,411,500.

Geography
Minsk Region covers a total of 39,900 km2, about 19.44% of the national total area. Lake Narach, the largest lake in the country, is located in the northern part of the region. There are four other large lakes in this region: Svir (8th largest), Myadel (11th largest), Syalyava (14th largest) and Myastro (15th largest). It is the only region of Belarus whose border is not part of the international border of Belarus.

History
Beginning the 10th century, the territory of the current Minsk Region was part of Kievan Rus', the Principality of Polotsk, and later it was included in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. With the unification of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Kingdom of Poland, the territory became part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.
In 1793, as a result of the second partition of Polish territory, the area was annexed by Russia as the Minsk Region. During the collapse of the Russian Empire due to the Civil War, the western part was annexed to Poland in 1921, while the east became Soviet Belarus.
The Minsk region was established on 15 January 1938, based on the amendment of the Constitutional Law of the USSR. As of 20 February 1938, the area included 20 districts.  Following the Soviet invasion of Poland on September 17, 1939, the former Eastern lands of the Second Polish Republic were annexed in accordance with the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact partitioning Poland and added to the Minsk Region.
On 20 September 1944, by the decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, the Gressky, Kopyl, Krasnoslobodski, Luban, Slutsky, Starobin, Starodorozhski districts and the city of Sluck were removed from the Minsk region and transferred to the newly formed Bobruisk Region.
On 8 January 1954, by the decree of the USSR Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, the Nesvizhski and Stolbtsovsky districts from the abolished Baranovichi Region, as well as the Glusk, Gressky, Kopyl, Krasnoslobodski, Luban, Slutsky, Starobin, Starodorozhski districts and the city of Sluck from the abolished Bobruisk Region, were added to the Minsk Region.
In 1960, following the abolition of Molodechno Region, its southern part became the northern part of the Minsk Region.

Tourism
The number of travel agencies in Minsk Region grew from twelve in 2000 to seventy in 2010. The most popular tourist destinations of the region are Zaslavskoye Lake, the Zhdanovichi area which has health resorts, Nesvizh Palace and its surroundings, as well as the alpine ski resorts of Logoysk and Silichi.

Administrative subdivisions
The Minsk Region comprises 22 districts (raions), 307 selsovets, 22 cities, 8 city municipalities, and 20 urban-type settlements.

Districts of Minsk Region
Cities and towns
Population of cities and towns in Minsk Region

Demographics
See also
Administrative divisions of Belarus
Villages in Minsk Region
Passage 9:
Krasnovishersky District
Krasnovishersky District (Russian: Краснови́шерский райо́н) is an administrative district (raion) of Perm Krai, Russia; one of the thirty-three in the krai. Municipally, it is incorporated as Krasnovishersky Municipal District. It is located in the northeast of the krai, in the valley of the Vishera River, and borders with the Komi Republic in the north, Sverdlovsk Oblast in the east, Cherdynsky District in the west, Solikamsky District in the south, and with the territory of the town of krai significance of Alexandrovsk in the southeast. The area of the district is 15,375 square kilometers (5,936 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Krasnovishersk. Population:  22,554 (2010 Census); 27,871 (2002 Census); 30,827 (1989 Census). The population of Krasnovishersk accounts for 71.4% of the district's total population.

Geography
The eastern part of the district is mostly mountainous, while the western part is mostly flat, with some hills with the height of about 190–220 meters (620–720 ft). The highest point of Perm Krai, Mount Tulymsky Kamen, is located in the district. There are many rivers in the district, including the Vishera River with its tributaries the Yazva, the Vels, the Uls, and many others. The town of Krasnovishersk is located 320 kilometers (200 mi) from the city of Perm. Natural resources of the district include diamonds, gold, oil, natural gas, and others.
The climate is temperate continental. The average annual temperature is +0.1 °C (32.2 °F); annual precipitation is 550–700 millimeters (22–28 in). Up to 87% of the district's territory is covered by forests. In the extreme northeast of the district the Vishera Nature Reserve is located.

History
The district was established on January 13, 1941. Until then, its territory was a part of Cherdynsky District. Krasnovishersk, the administrative center of the district, was granted town status on July 2, 1942.

Demographics
As of the 2002 Census, about 89.7% of district's population were Russians and 2.5% were the Komi people.

Economy
The industry of the district includes timber industry, pulp and paper mill, mining and food industry.

See also
Visherogorsk
Zagovorukha
Passage 10:
Kazachinsky District
Kazachinsky District (Russian: Каза́чинский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the forty-three in Krasnoyarsk Krai, Russia. It is located in the southern central part of the krai and borders with Yeniseysky and Motyginsky Districts in the north, Taseyevsky District in the east, Bolshemurtinsky District in the south, and with Pirovsky District in the west. The area of the district is 5,755 square kilometers (2,222 sq mi). Its administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Kazachinskoye. Population:  11,430 (2010 Census); 12,732 (2002 Census); 16,015 (1989 Census). The population of Kazachinskoye accounts for 33.8% of the district's total population.

Geography
The district is located in the Central part of Krasnoyarsk region, 160-230 km North of Krasnoyarsk And 110-130 km from Yeniseisk. The area is 5755 km².
Situated on both banks of the Yenisey river, through the area the trail passes Р409 "Krasnoyarsk — Yeniseisk". Near the village of kazachinsky (233-240 km from Krasnoyarsk) is one of the most impassable areas on the Yenisei — kazachinsky threshold (rus).  Adjacent territory:

North: Yeniseisky and Motyginsky districts of Krasnoyarsk region;
East: Taseevsky district of Krasnoyarsk territory;
South: Bolshemurtinsky district of Krasnoyarsk region;
West: Pirovsky district of Krasnoyarsk region.

History
The district was founded on April 4, 1924.

Divisions and government
Kazachinsky district Council of deputies
Date of formation: 13.09.2015. Term of office: 5 years
Chairman
Paskolniy Igor Nikolaevich
Head of kazachinsky district
Ozerskyh Yury Evgenievich. Date of election: 27.07.2015. Term of office: 5 years
Passage 11:
Swan Miara
Swan Miara (ساون میرا) is a village and union council (an administrative subdivision) of Mansehra District in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is located in the south of the district where it borders Abbottabad District.Formerly it was a part of the Princely State of Amb.
Passage 12:
Lago District
Lago District is a district of Niassa Province in north-western Mozambique. The principal town is Metangula. Lago District is bordered to the west by Lake Nyasa, on the south by Lichinga, on the east by Sanga District.  Lago shares its northern boundary with Tanzania.  

Area: 6,438 km2.
Population: 55, 892 (1997 census)
Population density: 8.7 people/km2 (1997)

Settlements
Lupilichi
Chicago

Further reading
District profile (PDF)
Passage 13:
Gallaratese
Gallaratese is a district ("quartiere") of Milan, Italy, part of the Zone 8 administrative division of the city. It is located about 7 km north-west of the city centre. It borders on the comune of Pero to the north and on the districts of Trenno to the west and Lampugnano to the south; to the east, its ideal border is the eponymous street, which in turn is named after Gallarate, the town it leads to.

Overview
The district is clearly subdivided into two parts; the first one, in the area of Via Cechov, has developed after the other one, enclosed between Via Cilea and Via Apennini; this latter, older part of the district is sometimes referred to as quartiere San Leonardo. These two parts are connected by a major shopping mall called Bonola. 
Gallaratese is one of the largest districts in Italy to have been built "from scratch" in the 20th century (between the 1960s and 1980s) in a previously rural area. The Olona river, which traverses the district, has been laid underground. The first buildings to be created in Gallaratese were large apartment blocks; smaller palaces were added later. Today, the district has a population of about 60,000. The district is well connected by public transportation; it has four stops of the Milan Metro subway and five bus lines traversing it. It is also close to major thoroughfares such as the Tangenziale and the Strada del Sempione. 
A major landmark of the Gallaratese district is Monte Amiata, a complex of apartment blocks that were designed by Carlo Aymonino, and that are characterized by a futuristic architecture. The most typical buildings are the so-called "tower houses" (case torri in Italian, tower-shaped apartment blocks.

History
The project for the Gallaraterse district was first laid down by architect Piero Bottoni in the mid 20th century. The objective was to create a low-income housing district with green areas, effective traffic connection to the city, and functional public services. Construction began in 1957, from a first core of the district named "Gallaratese G.1". The original plan by Bottoni was then refined and developed by over 60 architects, led by Gianluigi Reggio.  A second and third part of the district, named "Gallaratese G.2" and "San Leonardo" respectively, were developed between 1964 and 1974.  In those years, the "tower houses" that now characterize the Gallaratese' skyline were built.  The final outcome was quite different from the original plans; the district was in fact developed with less green areas and less services than it had been planned, resulting in a definitely "satellite" district. 
In the last decades of the 20th century the district has grown larger, gradually extending north up to the borders of Pero; the Bonola shopping mall was also created.

Footnotes
External links
Portal of the Gallaratese district (in Italian)
Passage 14:
Nyuksensky District
Nyuksensky District (Russian: Ню́ксенский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-six in Vologda Oblast, Russia. It is located in the northeast of the oblast and borders with Ustyansky District of Arkhangelsk Oblast in the north, Velikoustyugsky District in the east, Kichmengsko-Gorodetsky District in the southeast, Babushkinsky District in the south, Totemsky District in the southwest, and with Tarnogsky District in the west. The area of the district is 5,167.42 square kilometers (1,995.15 sq mi). Its administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Nyuksenitsa. District's population: 9,777 (2010 Census); 11,714 (2002 Census); 13,287 (1989 Census). The population of Nyuksenitsa accounts for 43.7% of the district's total population.

Geography
The district is located on both banks of the Sukhona River. It is elongated from north to south and divided by the Sukhona roughly into two equal parts. The major part of the district belongs to the basin of the Sukhona and two of its tributaries: the Uftyuga (left) and the Gorodishna (right). The rivers in the north of the district drain into the Ustya River basin and thus into the basin of the Vaga, a major tributary of the Northern Dvina. Some rivers in the southeast of the district drain into the Kichmenga and the Sharzhenga, left tributaries of the Yug River. The whole district belongs to the basin of the Northern Dvina.
The district is almost completely covered by coniferous forests (taiga). The exception are the meadows in the floodplains.

History
The area was populated by Finnic peoples and then colonized by the Novgorod Republic (Totma) and Vladimir-Suzdal Principality (Veliky Ustyug). The Novgorod merchants used the Sukhona River as one of the main waterways leading to the White Sea and the Pechora. After the fall of Novgorod, the area became a part of the Grand Duchy of Moscow. The village of Bobrovy Yam (currently Bobrovskoye) was mentioned in the chronicles in 1425. Nyuksenitsa was first mentioned in 1619.In the course of the administrative reform carried out in 1708 by Peter the Great, the area was included into Archangelgorod Governorate. In 1780, the governorate was abolished and transformed into Vologda Viceroyalty. The latter was abolished in 1796, and the part of it which included Nyuksenitsa became Vologda Governorate. It was included into Velikoustyugsky Uyezd. In 1918, the area was transferred to the newly established Northern Dvina Governorate, and in 1924 the uyezds were abolished in favor of the new divisions, the districts (raions).
Nyuksensky District was established on June 10, 1924 and included areas of former Solvychegodsky and Velikoustyugsky Uyezds. On February 27, 1928, it was renamed Sukhonsky District. In 1929, Northern Dvina Governorate was merged into Northern Krai, and Kokshengsky District was established. On July 30, 1931, Sukhonsky and Kokshengsky Districts were merged, and Nyuksensky District was re-established, with the administrative center located in Nyuksenitsa. In 1935, Tarnogsky District was split off from Nyuksensky District. In 1936, Northern Krai was transformed into Northern Oblast, and in 1937, Northern Oblast itself was split into Arkhangelsk Oblast and Vologda Oblast. Nyuksensky District remained in Vologda Oblast ever since.

Administrative and municipal divisions
Administratively, the district is divided into eleven selsoviets. Municipally, the district is incorporated as Nyuksensky Municipal District and is divided into four rural settlements. The municipal district includes all of the inhabited localities of the administrative district, with the exception of the settlement of Ilezka, which is municipally a part of Babushkinsky District.

Economy
Industry
The economy of the district is based on timber production. There is some food industry present, including a milk factory in Nyuksenitsa.

Agriculture
There is cattle farming in the district, which is still in crisis after the fall in the 1990s.

Transportation
Nyuksenitsa stands on the road connecting Vologda and Veliky Ustyug, and in Nyuksenitsa the road moves over the bridge from the left bank to the right bank of the Sukhona. Another paved road branches off in Nyuksenitsa northwest to Tarnogsky Gorodok and further to Oktyabrsky in Arkhangelsk Oblast. There is regular passenger bus service on both roads.
The Sukhona is navigable within the district; however, there is no passenger navigation.
Nyuksenitsa has an oil-pumping station in the Baltic Pipeline System.

Culture and recreation
The district contains 130 objects classified as cultural and historical heritage of local importance. Most of these are wooden farm buildings and churches built prior to 1917.
The only state museum in the district is the Nyuksenitsa Regional Museum, located in Nyuksenitsa.
Passage 15:
Cherdynsky District
Cherdynsky District (Russian: Че́рдынский райо́н) is an administrative district (raion) of Perm Krai, Russia; one of the thirty-three in the krai. Municipally, it is incorporated as Cherdynsky Municipal District. It is located in the north and northeast of the krai and borders with the Komi Republic in the north, Krasnovishersky District in the east, Solikamsky District in the south, Kosinsky District in the southwest, and with Gaynsky District in the west. The area of the district is 20,872 square kilometers (8,059 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Cherdyn. Population:  24,568 (2010 Census); 35,152 (2002 Census); 40,688 (1989 Census). The population of Cherdyn accounts for 20.0% of the district's total population.

Geography
About 94% of the district's territory is covered by forests, which are mostly coniferous. Large portions of the territory are also covered by swamps and lakes. Major rivers flowing through the district include the Kama and the Kolva, with tributaries.

History
The district was established in 1924.

Demographics
Russians, at 90.5%, are the predominant ethnicity in the district. Other ethnicities of note include Tatars and Ukrainians, at 1.5% each.

Economy
The economy of the district is based on forestry and timber industry. There is also food industry.

See also
Vilisova
Passage 16:
Novolaksky District
Novolaksky District (Russian: Новола́кский райо́н; Lak: Цӏуссалакрал кIану) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the forty-one in the Republic of Dagestan, Russia. It is located in the west of the republic and borders with Khasavyurtovsky District in the northeast, Kazbekovsky District in the southeast, and with the Chechen Republic in the west. The area of the district is 218.2 square kilometers (84.2 sq mi). Its administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Novolakskoye. As of the 2010 Census, the total population of the district was 28,556, with the population of Novolakskoye accounting for 20.8% of that number.

History
The area of the modern district was historically a part of Aukh, the homeland of the Aukhs Chechens (one of the nine Chechen tukkhums). During the Soviet times, it was incorporated as Aukh District of the Chechen-Ingush ASSR and included the territories of modern Novolaksky District along with parts of Kazbekovsky and Khasavyurtovsky Districts. In 1944, when the Chechens were deported to Siberia and Kazakhstan, Aukh District was split, and Avars, Laks, Russians, and Kumyks were moved in to replace the deported Chechen population. Novolaksky District was resettled mainly by Laks (hence the name "Novolaksky"; literally "New Lak District"), but some Russians and Avars were settled there too. The mainly Chechen toponyms were replaced with Russian, Avar, and Lak ones.
When the Chechens began returning in 1957, conflicts erupted, as they found others literally living in their houses. Fortunately, the two sides came to an understanding. Neither Laks nor Chechens had much hatred for the other side, and both blamed Moscow for the conflict rather. Chechens understood that Laks had been forced against their will to move there, and did not want to be homeless; Laks understood that Aukh was the Chechens' historical home and they had nowhere else to go. The conflict is still being solved currently by the government of Dagestan with the help of local governments. Laks are being resettled, village by village, to the marsh north of Makhachkala, and Chechen names and the Chechen ownership have been restored to many villages. The process, however, is not complete, and there is still room for pitfalls in the negotiation process. Furthermore, there is still the problem of the Avar-settled former Chechen villages.

Administrative and municipal status
Within the framework of administrative divisions, Novolaksky District is one of the forty-one in the Republic of Dagestan. The district is divided into three selsoviets which comprise fifteen rural localities. As a municipal division, the district is incorporated as Novolaksky Municipal District. Its three selsoviets are incorporated as twelve rural settlements within the municipal district. The selo of Novolakskoye serves as the administrative center of both the administrative and municipal district.

See also
History of the Lak people
History of Chechnya
Passage 17:
States of Nigeria
Nigeria is a federation of 36 states and 1 federal capital territory. Each of the 36 states is a semi-autonomous political unit that shares powers with the federal government as enumerated under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT), is the capital territory of Nigeria, and it is in this territory that the capital city of Abuja is located. The FCT is not a state but is administered by elected officials who are supervised by the federal government. Each state is subdivided into local government areas (LGAs). There are 774 local governments in Nigeria. Under the constitution, the 36 states are co-equal but not supreme because sovereignty resides with the federal government. The constitution can be amended by the National Assembly, but each amendment must be ratified by two-thirds of the 36 states of the federation.

Current states and the Federal Capital Territory
Evolution of Nigerian states
Government
States of Nigeria have the right to organize and structure their individual governments in any way within the parameters set by the Constitution of Nigeria.

Legislature
At the state level, the legislature is unicameral, with the number of its members equal to three times the number of legislators it has in the Federal House of Representatives. It has the power to legislate on matters on the concurrent list.

Executive
At the state level, the head of the executive is the governor, who has the power to appoint people to the state executive council, subject to the advice and consent of the state house of assembly (legislature). The head of a ministry at the state level is the commissioner, who is assisted by a permanent secretary, who is also a senior civil servant of the state.

Judiciary
The Judiciary is one of the co-equal arms of the state government concerned with the interpretation of the laws of the state government. The judiciary is headed by the chief justice of the state appointed by the governor subject to the approval of the state house of assembly.

Chronology
See also
List of Nigerian states by population
ISO 3166-2:NG
List of state governors of Nigeria

Notes
Sources
Gboyega Ajayi (2007). The military and the Nigerian state, 1966–1993: a study of the strategies of political power control. Trenton, New Jersey: Africa World Press. ISBN 978-1-59221-568-3.
Solomon Akhere Benjamin (1999). The 1996 state and local government reorganizations in Nigeria. Ibadan: Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research. ISBN 978-181-238-9.
Rotimi T. Suberu (1994). 1991 state and local government reorganizations in Nigeria. Ibadan: Institute of African Studies, University of Ibadan. ISBN 978-2015-28-8.

External links
"New States of Nigeria". Statoids.
Headline News in Nigeria Archived 2018-08-20 at the Wayback Machine StatesStates And Capital In Nigeria, Their Slogans & Current Governors A comprehensive list of all states in Nigeria and their current governors.
Passage 18:
Akshinsky District
Akshinsky District (Russian: Акшинский район) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the thirty-one in Zabaykalsky Krai, Russia. It is located in the south of the krai and borders with Ononsky, Ulyotovsky, and Kyrinsky Districts of Zabaykalsky Krai, as well as with Mongolia. The area of the district is 7,400 square kilometers (2,900 sq mi).   Administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Aksha. Population: 10,682 (2010 Census); 12,080 (2002 Census); 14,695 (1989 Census). The population of Aksha accounts for 36.9% of the district's total population.

Geography
The Onon River flows through the district.

History
The district was established on March 4, 1926.

Economy
The district's landscape is suitable for agriculture. The mineral resources of the district include gold, uranium, precious stones, and timber.
Passage 19:
Michurinsky District
Michurinsky District  (Russian: Мичу́ринский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-three in Tambov Oblast, Russia. It is located in the northwest of the oblast. The district borders with Pervomaysky District in the north, Nikiforovsky District in the east, Petrovsky District in the south, and with Dobrovsky District of Lipetsk Oblast in the west. The area of the district is 1,655.25 square kilometers (639.10 sq mi). Its administrative center is the town of Michurinsk (which is not administratively a part of the district). Population: 34,245 (2010 Census);   35,196 (2002 Census); 39,224 (1989 Census).

Administrative and municipal status
Within the framework of administrative divisions, Michurinsky District is one of the twenty-three in the oblast. The town of Michurinsk serves as its administrative center, despite being incorporated separately as a town of oblast significance—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts.As a municipal division, the district is incorporated as Michurinsky Municipal District. The town of oblast significance of Michurinsk is incorporated separately from the district as Michurinsk Urban Okrug.

Notable residents
Afanasy Grigoriev (1782–1868), Neoclassical architect, born in Vasilievskaya
Afanasiy Remnyov (1890–1919), Soviet soldier during the Russian Civil War

See also
Glazok
Passage 20:
Lago Verde (Queyras)
Lago Verde (Italian for "green lake") is a lake which is located  in Italy, close to the French border and the Queyras valley.