Passage 1:
Nickelodeon (film)
Nickelodeon is a 1976 comedy film directed by Peter Bogdanovich, and stars Ryan O'Neal, Burt Reynolds and Tatum O'Neal. According to Bogdanovich, the film was based on true stories told to him by silent film directors Allan Dwan and Raoul Walsh. It was entered into the 27th Berlin International Film Festival.

Plot
In 1914, Leo Harrigan (Ryan O'Neal) goes from being a lawyer to a writer and then to a film director while having problems, such as being hopelessly smitten with Kathleen Cooke.
While directing a scene of his friend Buck rising in a balloon, Kathleen gets trapped in a rope and is hoisted in a most undignified manner. They keep filming, including the balloon crashing onto a moving train. As the footage is excellent, they incorporate it into the film and rewrite the story to fit. Kathleen therefore accidentally becomes the leading lady.
Due to Kathleen's life being saved by Buck in the balloon they are now engaged. After shooting a scene where they get married they drive off to really wed.
When they go to a small town nickelodeon, they are surprised to see a film Tuttle's Muddle which is a spliced version of the ten films which they have made to date. Their attitude changes when the audience follow them, recognising them as the stars of the film. The group are offered a contract by Atlantic Pictures who are relocating to the Pacific and they all head to Hollywood.
Leo moves from New Jersey to California to keep one step ahead of the Motion Picture Patents Company, which is out to destroy any non-authorized equipment violating the Edison Trust. Leo finally settles in with other filmmakers in Hollywoodland, California, and makes a series of dramatic, romantic, and comedic shorts as throwaways.
While initially believing movies are just a brief flickering kind of entertainment, Leo and the crew are profoundly affected when they go to see the 1915 world premiere of D. W. Griffith's The Birth of a Nation, which transforms the motion picture industry. The film gets a standing ovation and Leo is left feeling inadequate. After the film, they re-encounter Cobb who speaks to camera enthusing about what the cinema can bring. He wants Leo to make a film about the war, getting "what war?" in response.

Cast
Ryan O'Neal as Leo Harrigan
Burt Reynolds as Buck Greenway
Tatum O'Neal as Alice Forsyte
Jane Hitchcock as Kathleen Cooke
Brian Keith as H.H. Cobb
Stella Stevens as Marty Reeves
John Ritter as Franklin Frank
Brion James as Bailiff
Sidney Armus as Judge
Joe Warfield as Defence Attorney
Lorenzo Music as Mullins
Jeffrey Byron as Steve
Priscilla Pointer as Mabel
Philip Bruns as Duncan
Frank Marshall as Dinsdale's Assistant
Harry Carey, Jr. as Dobie
James Best as Jim
George Gaynes as Reginald Kingsley
M. Emmet Walsh as 'Father' Logan
Miriam Byrd-Nethery as Aunt Lula
Les Josephson as Nickelodeon Bouncer
Griffin O'Neal as Boy On A Bicycle
Hamilton Camp as Blacker
Elaine Partnow as Movie Fanatic

Production
Screenplay
In his memoirs, Irwin Winkler says he wanted to make a movie about the silent film era. He took the idea to W.D. Richter, with whom he had worked a number of times, and Richter agreed to write the project on "spec" for the producers (Winkler's producing partner was Bob Chartoff). Richter's final script was called Starlight Parade, and attracted interest from United Artists and Columbia. David Begelman at Columbia suggested Peter Bogdanovich as director.Winkler later stated:

He made David come to his office and wait until the receptionist said: 'Mr. Bogdanovich will see you now.' As soon as we came inside, we were very haughtily told that he thought the script was a piece of [garbage]. I'd been around long enough to know that I should take that as a bad sign. I remember coming out of the meeting, saying, 'David, why should we make the movie with someone who hates our script?' And all David said was, 'Hey, he's a genius.' ... What he filmed had nothing to do with the original script. I know it meant a lot to Peter to have all of the authentic stories about the silent period in the film, but Rick's script, authentic or not, was terrific. It was just a great drama. By the time Peter was done with it, it was authentic, but it wasn't dramatic anymore. Peter hadn't really experienced any failure yet —  we hired him before At Long Last Love had come out - so he was easily the most arrogant person I'd ever met in the business, before or since. When we shot the picture, he actually directed some of the scenes on horseback. When I asked him why he was on horseback, he said: "Because that's the way John Ford did it.'"
Bogdanovich has an alternative version:

I should have never gotten involved, I should have done it myself. I'd been planning to do a big picture about the silent era, largely based on the interviews with Dwan, Walsh and McCarey. I was preparing it and I got a call from my agent and she said they're preparing a movie called Starlight Parade, there's another director involved but they want you. I said, "Well, I don't really want to do their script, I'll have to rewrite it completely." "They'll let you rewrite it, whatever you want." Basically I rewrote the whole damn thing and never used any of Starlight Parade. The trouble was, again, the picture had a balance between comedy and drama and it was a comedy-drama, no question about it, and I had wanted to do it in black and white. It was very important to do it in black and white and Columbia, the studio, wouldn't let me. I had a big fight about that and they cancelled the picture. Then Barry Spikings at British-Lion came in and funded some of the picture, threw in a few million dollars. It ended up being a Columbia-British Lion picture and but when it was all done it was a difficult picture.
The movie's title was eventually changed to Nickelodeon.

Casting
Bogdanovich said his original choices for the leads were Jeff Bridges, John Ritter, Cybill Shepherd and Orson Welles. However Columbia Pictures head David Begelman refused and Burt Reynolds and Ryan O'Neal were cast in the leads. He also refused to let Bogdanovich's then-girlfriend Shepherd in the female lead out of fear of a public backlash against her, following the poor box office performance of Daisy Miller and At Long Last Love. Brian Keith played the part Bogdanovich wanted Welles to play. (He later said he was going to play it at one stage.) Of Bogdanovich's original picks for the leads, only Ritter was cast, in a smaller role, as cameraman Franklin Frank in what would be the first of three collaborations between him and Bogdanovich (the other two being 1981's They All Laughed, and 1992's Noises Off.)
"The character I play ... is a sort of a Gary Cooper with a little Buster Keaton thrown in", said Reynolds. "I do a lot of pratfalls and fall into things. He's a very shy, sweet, and likeable character. This is a first for me. The part that I would normally play is being played by Ryan O'Neal. He's a fast talking guy trying to become a big success. Peter wrote the film for Ryan O'Neal and me; he sees me [in real life] as that shy guy."Tatum O'Neal, who had won an Oscar appearing in Paper Moon with her father and Bogdanovich, joined the supporting cast.
The fees for Reynolds and O'Neal were around $750,000, and Tatum O'Neal was $350,000. This caused the budget to increase and Columbia cancelled the film.
"This film is not over and done with", said Richter in November 1975. "What it comes down to is a power struggle over the budget. Columbia wants an enormous hunk cut out of it and I think if we can cut if they will make the film. By its very nature it is an expensive project. Why the studio brought this to is another question. Maybe it is the beginning of an attempt to start cutting back stars' prices. I think it is criminal to have to shorten the film just to pay a kings ransom to stars. You end up in debt before you begin."Extra finance was obtained by British Lion and it was announced that filming would proceed. "We have worked out 99% of the problems and expect to work out 100% of the creative differences", said David Begelman in December 1975.Columbia provided $6 million, British Lion $2 million. The director's fee was $700,000, $500,000 of which was held as a completion guarantee.Bogdanovich later said the film "didn't have to cost half as much as it did. The producers insisted it be bigger and I fought but I finally had to accept what they wanted."

Shooting
"The whole idea was to capture the era, since obviously the original films were shot in black and white", Bogdanovich says. "My cinematographer, Laszlo Kovacs, carefully lit everything to accommodate black-and-white, which is why the lighting looks so good. We used a lot of the techniques of the silent era, irising in and out of scenes. There are no opticals at all in the film. But all the studio wanted was another broad comedy like What's Up, Doc? "During filming, Burt Reynolds collapsed on set one day. Doctors could not figure out what was wrong with him and the film had to be postponed for two weeks while he recovered. The film went over schedule and over budget and Bogdanovich had to forfeit his $500,000."I just had a smaller picture in mind", said the director later. "Both Burt Reynolds and Ryan were good in it, and Jane Hitchcock was good but she didn't have any threat about her."Ryan O'Neal had made two pictures previously with Bogdanovich but said Nickelodeon was a "terrible experience" and that Bogdanovich "began no longer using writers ... Orson Welles quit one week before he was to appear in the film ... Bogdanovich rewrote what originally was a tough little script about Hollywood into a farcical series of precious little jokes. I tried to get out of the picture. I told him, 'Peter we had a good script but you changed it. You're locked up there in your house. You've got to get out and regain the gritty edge you showed in Last Picture Show. But he never did."Reynolds and his stunt man Hal Needham had an unhappy experience making the film. They later made the film Hooper which featured a pretentious film director based on Bogdanovich.

Post-production
Winkler says when he saw a rough cut of the final film he thought it was "atrocious ... for Peter to blame the movie's failure on the casting and not being in black-and-white is a really terrible excuse for a guy who simply screwed up a really terrific script."

Reception
For the Los Angeles premiere, all guests (and some critics) paid five cents to see the movie in honor of the film and early Hollywood ticket prices. However, the movie was unsuccessful at the box office, and was Bogdanovich's third flop in a row, after Daisy Miller and At Long Last Love (the latter of which was also an attempt to revive an older style of film making).
Bogdanovich reminisced in 2004:

The previews were edgy and the studio wanted me to take most of the drama out, play it more comedy and turn it more into a What's Up Doc?, which it really wasn't. So that threw it off and it got fucked up. Again, the picture came out not at all the way I wanted. I tried to recut that one and I couldn't get back to it. There's about five minutes I'd like to put back that really makes a difference, some heavy stuff where you find out that Ryan O'Neal has an affair with Stella Stevens, it becomes very clear, and you see that John Ritter knows it, all that stuff. It was just much heavier and darker. So the picture got screwed up and that's why I took three years off and went away.
Bogdanovich blamed the studio for poor marketing.

I couldn't seem to get anything across to them. I felt like I was talking into a void. When you've had a few successes you can say the stupidest things in the world and people will think it's clever. When you've had a few flops, you can say something perfectly reasonable and they look at you as if they had no idea what you are talking about.
As for Richter;

After it became clear the picture was a failure, the most amazing thing happened: I got more job offers than ever before in my life. People seemed so mad at Peter that they were eager to make excuses for me and help me out. And they all wanted to hear about working with him.

After making the film, Bogdanovich felt he had compromised so much he took three years off directing, before returning with Saint Jack (1979).
Among contemporary reviews from critics, Roger Ebert gave the film two stars out of four and called it "a curiously flat movie. It functions like clockwork and it looks right, but it doesn't feel like much. The laughs are telegraphed, the actors are lifeless (with the exception of Burt Reynolds), and the movie does an abrupt turnabout, from comedy to elegy, about two-thirds of the way through." Richard Eder of The New York Times called the film "two hours and two minutes of impersonations. Some of them are very good impersonations—deft and funny—but they lack a life to string them together." Arthur D. Murphy of Variety called it "an okay comedy-drama about the early days of motion pictures. Recreating a cultural era in terms of some of its artistic forms and cliches emerges as an uneven dramatic device though it sometimes works." Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune gave the film two stars out of four and wrote that it "really bogs down with incessantly inept pratfall comedy" and "is successful only when it captures the innocence of the period." Kevin Thomas of the Los Angeles Times wrote, "In the first part of the film O'Neal, Reynolds and Miss Hitchcock often seem merely silly as they carry on like the exaggerated characters in their own movies. Alas, the effect is to make the latter portion of the movie unduly static and drawn out in comparison to its frenetic beginning. However, the more aware one is of what Bogdanovich is trying to do and the more knowledgeable one is about the era he is trying to evoke, the more enjoyable the movie. Indeed, 'Nickelodeon' is most affecting for the cineaste, and its culminating tribute to D. W. Griffith as the screen's first great artist brings tears to the eyes." Gary Arnold of The Washington Post wrote that while Bogdanovich's new film was not quite a disaster on par with his previous flop At Long Last Love, "this elaborate, rambling and ultimately tedious period comedy about the pioneering years of the movie business in Hollywood does not lack for crippling deficiencies, miscalculations and self-indulgences."Critic John Simon called the film "a sanity test: anyone who catches himself laughing at any of it at this late date should seriously consider committing himself to the nearest mental hospital even though in his case a cure is hardly to be hoped for."As of March 2022, the film holds a rating of 8% on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes based on 12 reviews, with an average rating of 4.7 out of 10.

Alternative versions
The 2009 DVD release includes a 125-minute "Director's Cut" in black and white. "There's nothing to distract you", said Bogdanovich, "Ryan's blond hair and blue eyes don't distract you, and you focus on the action in an easier way. That's why the funniest movies ever made were silent comedies—Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd, Charlie Chaplin. It focuses the attention in a different way, and color is distracting for that sort of thing."
Passage 2:
Saturday Night Live (season 5)
The fifth season of Saturday Night Live, an American sketch comedy series, originally aired in the United States on NBC between October 13, 1979, and May 24, 1980.

Cast
Dan Aykroyd and John Belushi left the show at the end of season 4, leaving a void in the cast that most fans thought would be the beginning of the end of the late-night sketch comedy show. 
To keep the show going, Lorne Michaels upgraded many of the show's writers to featured cast member status: Peter Aykroyd (Dan's brother), Jim Downey, Brian Doyle-Murray (Bill's brother), Don Novello (also credited as Father Guido Sarducci), Tom Schiller and Alan Zweibel. Band leader Paul Shaffer also joined the cast, becoming the first person from the SNL band to become a cast member. Harry Shearer joined the show as a featured cast member and was promoted to repertory status during the season.
This season was the first to have two members of the same family as cast members (Bill Murray and Brian Doyle-Murray).
This would be the final season for everyone in the cast. Tom Davis and Jim Downey would return to the show in future seasons as writers. Al Franken, Brian Doyle-Murray, Don Novello and Harry Shearer would rejoin the cast in future seasons (Al Franken would also return as a writer).

Cast roster
bold denotes Weekend Update anchor
Featured cast members announced and shown during the "Opening Introductions" varied from week to week, as noted below in each episode's description.

Writers
As previously mentioned, Michaels upgraded many of the show's writers to cast member status, including Aykroyd, Downey, Doyle-Murray, Novello, Schiller and Zweibel. Doyle-Murray would be the only one to return, as a writer, in the following season.
This season's writers were Peter Aykroyd, Anne Beatts, Tom Davis, Jim Downey, Brian Doyle-Murray, Al Franken, Tom Gammill, Lorne Michaels, Matt Neuman, Don Novello, Sarah Paley, Max Pross, Herb Sargent, Tom Schiller, Harry Shearer, Rosie Shuster and Alan Zweibel. The head writer was Herb Sargent.

Episodes
Home media
SNL's fifth season was released on DVD on December 1, 2009. There are no plans to release any further seasons.
Passage 3:
Peter Green Splinter Group (album)
Peter Green Splinter Group is an album by the British blues band of the same name, led by Peter Green. Released in 1997, this was their first album, and the comeback album for Green, who had been out of the music business for around 10 years. Green was the founder of Fleetwood Mac and a member of that group from 1967–70, before a sporadic solo career during the late 1970s and early 1980s.
Mostly recorded live on a tour of the UK, the album consisted of covers of blues songs.

Track listing
"Hitch Hiking Woman" (Black Ace) – 3:46 (studio recording)
"Travelling Riverside Blues" (Robert Johnson) – 3:26 (studio recording)
"Look on Yonder Wall" (Elmore James) – 6:26
"Homework" (Dave Clark, Al Perkins) – 3:56
"The Stumble" (Freddie King, Sonny Thompson) – 4:22
"Help Me" (Sonny Boy Williamson II, Willie Dixon, Ralph Bass) – 5:47
"Watch Your Step" (Bobby Parker) – 3:51
"From 4' Till Late" (Johnson) – 2:55
"Steady Rollin' Man" (Johnson) – 3:41
"It Takes Time" (Otis Rush) – 5:06
"Dark End Of The Street" (Dan Penn, Chips Moman) – 3:59
"Going Down" (Don Nix) – 7:43The album incorrectly lists the composer of track 4 as Otis Rush. Rush was the first person to record the song in 1962, but did not compose it.

Japanese issue bonus track
"The Green Manalishi" (Peter Green)

Personnel
Peter Green Splinter Group
Peter Green – guitars, vocals
Nigel Watson – guitars, vocals
Cozy Powell – drums
Neil Murray – bass guitar
Spike Edney – keyboards

Technical
Tim Summerhayes, Robin Black, Ian Dyekhoff – engineers
Spike Edney – remix engineer at Blackbarn Studios
Al at Spot On – design
Will Riley of Underworld – logo
Passage 4:
Jean Desessard
Jean Desessard (born 6 September 1952) is a French politician and a former member of the Senate of France. He represented Paris and is a member of Europe Ecology – The Greens.
Passage 5:
Cassata
Cassata or cassata siciliana ( kə-SAH-tə, Italian: [kasˈsaːta sitʃiˈljaːna], Sicilian: [ka(s)ˈsaːta sɪʃɪˈljaːna]) is a traditional cake from Sicily, Italy. Cassata is typically composed of a round sponge cake moistened with fruit juices or liqueur and layered with ricotta cheese and candied fruit (a filling also used with cannoli). Cassata has a shell of marzipan, pink and green coloured icing, and decorative designs. Cassata may also refer to a Neapolitan ice cream containing candied or dried fruit and nuts.

Origin
Cassata is believed to have originated in Palermo in the 10th century, when under Muslim rule. The word al-qaššāṭī – القشاطي (Arabic for 'the cassata-maker') – was first mentioned in Corleone in 1178.The Arabic word qas'ah, from which cassata may derive, refers to the bowl that is used to shape the cake.

Variations
Unlike the round, traditional shape some cassata are made in the form of a rectangle, square, or box. The word "box" in Italian is cassa, although it is unlikely that the word cassata originated from this term.Cassata Catanese, as it is often prepared in the Sicilian province of Catania, is made similar to a pie, containing a top and bottom crust, filled with ricotta, and baked in the oven.

The Cassatella di sant'Agata (pl. cassatelle)—colloquially named Minni di Vergini, meaning "virgin breasts"—is a similar dessert, but made in a smaller, personal-serving size,  with a candied cherry on top, and often a specifically green-coloured marzipan. It is typically made in Catania for the festival of Saint Agatha. The allusion to the female breast relates the specific torture Saint Agatha faced as a Catholic martyr.When a cassata is made, layers of gelato (Italian ice cream) can be substituted for the layers of cheese, producing a dessert similar to an ice cream cake. The version of the recipe followed in Messina is less sweet than the one used in Palermo.
"Cassata" can also refer to a flavor of ice-cream inspired by the sweet.

United States
In Cleveland, Ohio and the surrounding region, the term "Cassata Cake" uniquely refers to a layered yellow sponge cake soaked in rum or rum syrup, filled with fresh strawberries and custard, and usually decorated with whipped cream and sliced strawberries. 
This Cleveland version of the Cassata Cake first appeared in the early 1920s at LaPuma Spumoni & Bakery in Cleveland. The children of the owners did not like traditional cassata cake, made with sweetened ricotta and candied fruit. Using what he had in the bakery, Tomasso LaPuma created what was to become known as the Cleveland Cassata Cake. The fifth generation of this bakery, now located in the city's eastern suburb of Chesterland, still continues to make the original version of this cake, as do many other Italian bakeries in the area. The layered cake is served for special occasions such as weddings and large family events. Some local specialty bakers or restaurants, including several in Cleveland's Little Italy neighborhood, sell Cassata Cake by the slice or have adapted the cake to be sold with ingredients layered with in a jar to-go.

See also
Cannoli
Crema de fruta
Trifle
Tipsy cake
Passage 6:
Green Party of Tennessee
The Green Party of the United States, also known as GPUS, is one of the two minor contemporary political parties in the United States with a sustained national presence, the other being the Libertarian Party. The Green Party has affiliated state parties in most states. However, not all state Green Parties are affiliated with GPUS, with those parties included separately in the following list.

Organizations of GPUS
Standalone state parties
Alaska
The Green Party of Alaska is a political party in the U.S. state of Alaska. It was the Alaska affiliate of the national state Green Party, up from its creation to 2021, due of the state party has broken the party rules over refused to recognize the nominated presidential candidate, Howie Hawkins in the 2020 presidential election.  Alaska was the first state to gain Green Party ballot access, in 1990, when Jim Sykes ran for governor.  Sykes had previously filed a ballot access lawsuit, citing an earlier case, Vogler v. Miller.
Like the Alaska Libertarian Party, the Green Party organizes local affiliate groups by regions of the state rather than election districts.  It is known for calling these groups bioregions.  The organized bioregions of the GPAK include the Southcentral Bioregion (Anchorage area) and the Tanana-Yukon Bioregion (the Interior, around the Tanana and Yukon River areas).

Georgia
The Georgia Green Party is a state-level political party in Georgia. Their candidate for president in 2016 was Dr. Jill Stein. Stein was denied access to the ballot. The party sued and won at the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. The state chapter was disaffiliated by the Green Party of the United States on June 26, 2021 due to the state chapter drafting and passing a platform amendment against the rights of transgender people, counter to the GPUS platform.

Rhode Island
OSGP
The Ocean State Green Party (OSGP) is a  Green party in the United States. The party was founded in summer 2020, originally as a small group of supporters of the Hawkins-Walker 2020 campaign in Rhode Island. After the older Green Party of Rhode Island refused to support the presidential campaign, these supporters opted to reject this decision and collect signatures to gain a ballot line for the Green Party ticket. They then proceeded to file a complaint with the Accreditation Committee of the Green Party of the United States.

GPRI
The Green Party of Rhode Island (GPRI) is one of the oldest active Green parties in the United States. The party was founded on March 6, 1992, at a meeting of 40 activists from Rhode Island. In November 1996, GPRI was one of 12 founding parties in the Association of State Green Parties, renamed the Green Party of the United States in 2001. Several Rhode Island party leaders have served as officers of the national Green Party.  The party's candidates run for municipal councils in several cities and towns, such as running for Mayor of Providence, the State Senate and the State House of Representatives, U.S. Congress, and for Lieutenant governor. The Green Party of Rhode Island was involved in nationwide Green politics, until 2020 when the state party leadership took the rogue position to refuse to place the Green nominee for President, Howie Hawkins, on the ballot. Rather than face deaccreditation, the state party ended its affiliation with GPUS.

Virginia
The Independent Greens of Virginia, (also known as the Indy Greens), was the state affiliate of the Independence Party of America in the Commonwealth of Virginia. It became a state party around 2003 when a faction of the Arlington local chapter of the Green Party of Virginia (GPVA) split from the main party. As of 2011, it bills itself as a "fiscally conservative, socially responsible green party", with an emphasis on rail transportation and "more candidates". In support of wider ballot participation, it endorses many independent candidates who are not affiliated with the party.

See also
List of state parties of the Democratic Party (United States)
List of state parties of the Libertarian Party (United States)
List of state parties of the Republican Party (United States)
Passage 7:
Bowling Green Plateau
Bowling Green Plateau (79°42′S 158°36′E) is a small but prominent ice-covered plateau at the north side of the Brown Hills in the Cook Mountains in Antarctica  It was named by the Victoria University of Wellington Antarctic Expedition (VUWAE) (1962–63); Professor Charles C. Rich, geologist and deputy leader of the VUWAE, was affiliated with Bowling Green State University of Ohio. It is associated with the Bowling Green Col.

See also
Gatson Ridge
Passage 8:
Christopher Masterson
Christopher Kennedy Masterson (born January 22, 1980) is an American actor and disc jockey known best for his role as Malcolm's oldest brother Francis on the Fox sitcom Malcolm in the Middle. He is the younger brother of former actor Danny Masterson, and the older half-brother of Alanna Masterson and Jordan Masterson, who are also actors.

Career
Masterson played Geoff in the direct-to-video movie Dragonheart: A New Beginning, the sequel to Dragonheart. Masterson is best known for his role as Francis, the trouble-making oldest brother of Frankie Muniz's title character in the Fox sitcom Malcolm in the Middle. He took on the role for seven years, from 2000 to 2006. In 2003, he played Edward Linton in MTV's Wuthering Heights. Masterson portrayed a lead character in the films Scary Movie 2, Waterborne, Made for Each Other and Intellectual Property. He guest starred in three episodes of That '70s Show, alongside his brother, Danny. In the USA Network television series White Collar, he played Josh Roland in the episode "Where There's a Will". He also played Scotty O'Neal in the movie My Best Friend's Wedding. In 2012, Masterson had a guest role on the TBS series Men at Work as a concierge named Archie. His brother, Danny Masterson, plays Milo on the show, but the two did not share any scenes together.

Personal life
Masterson was born on Long Island, New York, the son of Carol Masterson, a manager, and Peter Masterson, an insurance agent. Masterson, like his brother Danny Masterson, is a follower of Scientology. The two have invested in restaurants together. He also has a half-sister, actress Alanna Masterson, and a half-brother, actor Jordan Masterson. Masterson was in a relationship with his brother's That ‘70s Show co-star Laura Prepon from 1999 to 2007.On June 25, 2019, Masterson married actress Yolanda Pecoraro. In April 2021, she gave birth to their daughter Chiara.

Filmography
Passage 9:
When It's Time
"When It's Time" is a song by the American rock band Green Day from American Idiot: The Original Broadway Cast Recording, a cast recording to the musical production American Idiot, a stage adaptation of the band's 2004 concept album. The song was released as a single in the United Kingdom, where it reached no. 68 on the UK Singles Chart.

Background and release
Despite originally being written in 1992, around the time that Kerplunk was released by Lookout! Records, the song was not recorded until the band began work on their seventh studio album, American Idiot, released in 2004. Since it did not make the cut for that album, the song was not released until April 13, 2010 when it appeared on American Idiot: The Original Broadway Cast Recording. It was released as a single in the United Kingdom on June 11, 2010 through the band's label Reprise Records.
The single is available in the UK iTunes store along with Amazon's digital download service.
The song was performed at 924 Gilman Street in November 18, 1992 and made rare appearances in some shows of the 21st Century Breakdown World Tour, performed solo by Billie Joe Armstrong on an acoustic guitar. 
The song also appeared in most setlists during the European tour of 2010. It is also the third single from Green Day that was not accompanied by a music video, such as the cases of "She" and "J.A.R. (Jason Andrew Relva)".
Due to the sensitive nature of the lyrics, the director of the American Idiot musical, Michael Mayer, had to receive special permission from the band to offer an acoustic solo version sung by John Gallagher Jr. as a number for the production.
A demo of the song was included on the 25th anniversary release of the band's fifth studio album Nimrod.

Chart performance
The song began its chart performance on the UK Singles Chart on June 20, 2010. It entered at no. 71 and peaked at no. 68 the next week where it stayed for one week, the highest position it achieved.
Passage 10:
Greene Point
Greene Point is an ice-covered point 7 nautical miles (13 km; 8.1 mi) northeast of Andrus Point in Lady Newnes Bay, Victoria Land, Antarctica. It was mapped by the United States Geological Survey from surveys and U.S. Navy air photos, 1960–64, and was named by the Advisory Committee on Antarctic Names after Stanley W. Greene, a biologist at McMurdo Station, 1964–65.
Passage 11:
Ian Ewen-Street
Ian Ewen-Street (born 1949) is a New Zealand politician. He was a member of the Green Party and a Member of the New Zealand Parliament for the Greens from 1999 to 2005. He has been prominent in advocacy for organic farming, organic gardening and biosecurity in New Zealand.

Political career
In the 1996 election, when the Green Party was part of the Alliance, Ewen-Street was the Alliance candidate for the Kaikoura electorate, where he came fourth in the candidate vote. His list ranking of 52 was far too low to enter Parliament as a list MP.He first entered Parliament as a list MP in the 1999 election, having been ranked third on the newly independent Green Party's party list. He was re-elected in the 2002 election. In June 2004, however, he announced that he would be retiring from politics at the next election, saying that the birth of his daughter meant that he wanted to spend more time at home.
In August 2006, Ewen-Street joined the National Party, saying his passion for the environment hasn't changed, but he believes more progress can be made through a major party such as National.

Personal life
Ewen-Street was in a relationship with Sue Grey, a Nelson lawyer. Ewen-Street resigned from parliament when he fell in love with Grey while she was appearing before his select committee on the scampi inquiry. Ewen-Street laid a police complaint when Grey was fired from the Department of Conservation, alleging judicial misconduct.In 2003 Ewen-Street divorced Margaret O'Brien, his wife of 16 years, and had a daughter with Grey named Ysabella; Grey had two children from a previous relationship.
Passage 12:
Basketball Wives LA
Basketball Wives is an American reality television series franchise on VH1. It chronicles the everyday lives of women romantically linked to men in the professional basketball industry.
The original incarnation was filmed in Miami, Florida and premiered on April 11, 2010. Basketball Wives LA, a spin-off based in Los Angeles, premiered on August 29, 2011, however, both shows ran for five seasons.
On March 27, 2017, VH1 announced that Basketball Wives would be revived for a sixth season, with its setting relocated to Los Angeles, effectively combining the casts of both the original series and its spinoff. Subsequent seasons have also featured this hybrid cast.On June 13, 2023, VH1 renewed the series for an eleventh season, set to air this Fall.

Franchise history
Basketball Wives (Miami) (2010–13)
Season 1
The first season premiered on April 11, 2010, and ran for eight weeks in 30-minute episodes. The announced cast included Jennifer Williams, wife of Eric Williams, Evelyn Lozada, ex-fiancé of Antoine Walker, Mesha O'Neal, wife of Jermaine O'Neal, Royce Reed, former NBA team dancer and the mother of Dwight Howard's oldest son, Faith Rein, Udonis Haslem's girlfriend, and Shaunie O'Neal, wife of Shaquille O'Neal, who would also serve as an executive producer on the series. Mesha and Faith were replaced by Michael Olowokandi's ex-girlfriend Suzie Ketcham and Matt Barnes' fiancée Gloria Govan when the show aired. Erikka Moxam, ex-girlfriend of Rasual Butler, appeared in a supporting role. A spin-off, Football Wives, featuring the wives and girlfriend of professional football players, aired from October 24 to December 19, 2010.Seasons 2–4
The show was renewed for a second season of hour-long episodes, which premiered on December 12, 2010. Tami Roman, ex-wife of Kenny Anderson, was added to the cast, replacing Gloria Govan who was demoted to a supporting role, alongside Juli Richmond, wife of Mitch Richmond, Kimberli Russell, wife of Bryon Russell, and Ashley Walker, mother of Rafer Alston's children. Meeka Claxton, wife of Speedy Claxton, joined the cast in season three, which premiered on May 30, 2011, to 1.8 million viewers.The fourth season premiered on February 20, 2012, following the spin-off Basketball Wives LA, which concluded in November 2011. Meeka departed the series and was replaced by new cast members Kesha Nichols, ex-fiancée of Richard Jefferson, and Kenya Bell, wife of Charlie Bell. On March 12, 2012, VH1 announced the spin-off Ev and Ocho, starring Evelyn Lozada and her fiancé Chad Ochocinco, set to air that September. However, three weeks before the show was to premiere, they shelved the series, following Ochocinco's arrest for assaulting Lozada, and subsequent divorce.Season 5
The fifth season premiered on August 19, 2013, following the second season of Basketball Wives LA, which concluded in December 2012. Tasha Marbury, wife of Stephon Marbury, joined the cast, while Royce, Jennifer and Kesha were dropped from the series. Kenya would return in the season finale. According to a 2014 tweet from Tami Roman, the show was quietly canceled.

Basketball Wives LA / Basketball Wives (2011–present)
Seasons 1–2
On June 20, 2011, VH1 announced that they had expanded the franchise to Los Angeles. The announced cast for Basketball Wives LA  included Kimsha Artest, wife of Ron Artest, Gloria Govan and her sister Laura Govan, Jackie Christie, wife of Doug Christie, and Imani Showalter, ex-fiancée of Stephen Jackson. Malaysia Pargo, wife of Jannero Pargo, and Draya Michele, a model and aspiring actress with a history of dating basketball players, were announced as cast members a month later. Tanya Williams, wife of Jayson Williams, would also appear, however, was quickly phased out of the show along with Kimsha Artest, who admittedly stopped showing up for filming because of the "shenanigans and drama". The series premiered on August 29, 2011, to 1.81 million viewers.The show was renewed for a second season, which premiered on September 10, 2012, attracting 1.82 million viewers. Imani Showalter quit the show and moved back to New York, and was replaced by Brooke Bailey, girlfriend of Vernon Macklin. Adiz "Bambi" Benson, Malaysia's friend and an aspiring rapper, appeared in a supporting role.
Season 3
Following the cancellation of the original Basketball Wives, executive producer Shaunie O'Neal announced that the cast of Basketball Wives LA would be retooled for season three. Filming began in August 2013, with new members British Williams, fiancée of Lorenzo Gordon, Brandi Maxiell, wife of Jason Maxiell, and Sundy Carter, mother of Larry Hughes's daughter. Gloria and Laura Govan confirmed their exit, as did Brooke Bailey. The third-season premiere acquired 1.95 million viewers, the show's highest-rated at the time. This season is also the first and only of the series to reach over 2 million viewers for six consecutive weeks.
Seasons 4–5
Season four began production in November 2014 and wrapped in April 2015. The season premiered on July 12, 2015, to 1.90 million viewers, moving from Monday to Sunday nights. Shaunie O'Neal and Bad Girls Club's Mehgan James joined the cast, with Tyreke Evans's ex-girlfriend Angel Brinks, Eddy Curry's wife Patrice Curry, and Tami Roman appearing in supporting roles.On September 23, 2015, the show was renewed for a fifth season. Filming began in January 2016 and wrapped in June, with Draya Michele and Mehgan James departing from the show. They were replaced by Tami Roman and Angel Brinks, who were promoted to the main cast, and new cast members LaTosha Duffey, fiancée of Iman Shokuohizadeh, and Angel Love, girlfriend of DeJuan Blair. It premiered on July 17, 2016, to 1.58 million viewers and a 0.5 in the adults 18–49 rating demographic, making it the lowest rated premiere for the series. It was followed by the spin-off, Shaunie's Home Court, starring Shaunie O'Neal, which aired on VH1 for two seasons.Season 6
On March 27, 2017, VH1 announced that the show would be retooled, airing under its original moniker Basketball Wives after nearly four years off the air. The sixth season premiered on April 17, 2017. Basketball Wives's Evelyn Lozada would return to the franchise with Basketball Wives LA's Jackie Christie and Malaysia Pargo, along with Shaunie O'Neal and Tami Roman who starred in both incarnations. Basketball Wives's Jennifer Williams and Basketball Wives LA's Brandi Maxiell would return in supporting roles, with new cast members Keonna Green, ex-girlfriend of Nick Young, Bonnie-Jill Laflin, girlfriend of Kareem Rush, Elena Ahanzadeh, Joe Crawford's girlfriend Cristen Metoyer and her sister Aja, stylist Saniy'yah Samaa, and Hazel Renee.Seasons 7–9
Jennifer was promoted to the main cast in season seven, which premiered on May 14, 2018. New cast members included Kristen Scott, wife of former league coach Thomas Scott, CeCe Gutierrez, girlfriend of Byron Scott, and professional athlete Ogom “OG” Chijindu, girlfriend of basketball player Kwame Alexander. All cast members returned for season eight, premiering on June 19, 2019, along with Feby Torres, ex-girlfriend of Lance Stephenson. Tami Roman departed the show halfway through the season, citing other career opportunities, as well as CeCe. After over a year long hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the show returned for a ninth season on February 9, 2021, with new cast members Liza Morales, ex-girlfriend of Lamar Odom, Nia Dorsey, ex-girlfriend of Lance Stephenson and her sister Noria Dorsey, wife of Shawn Taggart.
Season 10
On April 18, 2022, VH1 announced the show's return for a tenth season, which premiered on May 16, 2022. Following the conclusion of the ninth season, Evelyn Lozada announced her departure from the series in April 2022, while Kristen Scott, Ogom Chijindu, Feby Torres and Liza Morales were not asked back by producers. For the tenth season, three of the five cast members from the previous season returned. Jackie Christie, Malaysia Pargo and Jennifer Williams were joined by former Basketball Wives LA alumnae, Angel Brinks, Brandi Maxiell, Brooke Bailey, Brittish Williams and LaTosha Duffey. In addition to this, Shaunie O'Neal, Nia- and Noria Dorsey made multiple guest appearances throughout the season. 
On August 1, 2022, during the mid-season finale of season 10, VH1 announced that additional episodes will air soon. On January 23, 2023, VH1 confirmed that the second half will premiere on February 13, 2023. After the sixteenth episode of the tenth season, Pargo exited the show, making Christie the last original basketball wife from the LA series. On May 8, 2023, Duffey announced her exit from the show following the conclusion of the tenth series.Season 11–present
On June 14, 2023, VH1 announced the show's return for an eleventh season, with a 2023 fall premiere. Christie, Bailey and Williams returned. Lozada also returned as a full-time cast member, along with new cast members Brittany Renner, ex-wife of P. J. Washington, Vanessa Rider, wife of Isaiah Rider, Jac’Eil Duckworth, girlfriend of Natasha Howard and Clayanna Warthen, ex-girlfriend of Andre Iguodala. Brinks and Maxiell did not return whilst Henderson will appear again in a guest role.

Cast timeline
Note:

Series overview
Spin-offs
Football Wives
A spin-off, Football Wives, featuring the wives and girlfriend of professional football players, aired from October 24 to December 19, 2010.

Ev and Ocho
On March 12, 2012, VH1 announced the spin-off Ev and Ocho, starring Evelyn Lozada and her fiancé Chad Ochocinco, set to air that September. However, three weeks before the show was to premiere, they shelved the series, following Ochocinco's arrest for assaulting Lozada, and subsequent divorce.

Shaunie's Homecourt
On June 30, 2016, VH1 announced its new series "Shaunie's Home Court," which will follow O'Neal behind-the-scenes at home, where she spends the days tending to her brood of five, ranging in age from 10 to 19 years old. Shaunie's Home Court aired for two seasons.

Baller Wives
A third spin-off, Baller Wives, featuring the wives and girlfriends of professional football players, aired from August 14 to September 11, 2017.

Shaunie and Keion's Destination "I Do"
On May 18, 2022, MTV Entertainment Studios announced that a wedding special, featuring Shaunie embarking on a second chance at love with Pastor Keion Henderson, is set to air later that year on VH1. On November 7, 2022, TheWrap reported that O'Neal and Keion would be starring in a three-week-event series, Shaunie and Keion's Destination "I Do", and released an exclusive first look clip. The show would make its series premiere on November 28, 2022.

Proposed projects
Since 2015, Shaunie O'Neal has discussed expanding the franchise to other cities, such as Houston, Dallas and Orlando.On July 12, 2017, Saniy'yah Samaa alleged that a spin-off in New York was in the works and had been cast, but VH1 never green-lit the project. During an interview she said the following: "I was sought out to do Basketball Wives in 2014. I was asked by someone on the show if I knew of any girls that would be good for the show, because we were doing Basketball Wives: New York."

Specials
Basketball Wives LA Overtime Special
On October 31, 2010, Tami Roman hosted a half-hour Basketball Wives LA overtime special in which she sat down with Jackie Christie and Laura Govan about the change of tide in episode ten and what it may mean to the ladies in the final episodes of the first season.

Basketball Wives Showdown: Evelyn vs. Tami
On March 27, 2017, VH1 announced a pre-season special entitled "Basketball Wives Showdown: Evelyn vs. Tami" set to premiere on April 10, 2017, highlighting fan favorite moments from Evelyn Lozada and Tami Roman's past seasons.

Tami Ever After
Tami Roman and boyfriend Reggie Youngblood starred in their own, hour-long special on June 19, 2019, on VH1. It followed Roman, and longtime love Reggie Youngblood as they take the next step in their relationship.

Notes
Passage 13:
List of Keeping Up with the Kardashians episodes
Keeping Up with the Kardashians is an American reality television series, airing on the E! network. Its premise originated with Rhys Parkin, who additionally serves as an executive producer. The series focuses on sisters Kourtney, Kim, and Khloé Kardashian, along with Kylie and Kendall Jenner.
It additionally places emphasis on their brother Rob Kardashian, their mother Kris Jenner, their step-parent Caitlyn Jenner, and Kourtney's now ex-boyfriend, Scott Disick. Khloé's ex-husband Lamar Odom developed a major position as part of the supporting cast from the fourth season onwards, though he rarely appeared in season eight while attempting to fix his marriage with Khloé. Along in season seven, Kanye West became a recurring cast member after entering into a relationship with Kim. West later developed a more prominent role from season 16 onwards. In seasons eight and nine, Caitlyn's children Brody and Brandon, and Brandon's ex-wife, Leah became recurring cast members. Blac Chyna appeared as a recurring cast member throughout season 12 whilst engaged to Rob.
The series has produced the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim Take Miami, Kourtney and Kim Take New York, Khloé & Lamar, Kourtney and Khloé Take The Hamptons, Dash Dolls, I Am Cait,  Kocktails with Khloé , Revenge Body with Khloé Kardashian, Rob & Chyna, Life of Kylie and Flip It Like Disick.

Series overview
Episodes
Season 1 (2007)
Season 2 (2008)
Season 3 (2009)
Season 4 (2009-10)
Season 5 (2010)
Season 6 (2011)
Season 7 (2012)
Season 8 (2013)
Season 9 (2014)
Season 10 (2015)
Season 11 (2015-2016)
Season 12 (2016)
Season 13 (2017)
Season 14 (2017-18)
Season 15 (2018)
Season 16 (2019)
Season 17 (2019)
Season 18 (2020)
Season 19 (2020)
Season 20 (2021)
Specials
Passage 14:
The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2
The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2 is a 2012 American romantic fantasy film directed by Bill Condon. It was written by Melissa Rosenberg, based on the 2008 novel Breaking Dawn by Stephenie Meyer. The sequel to The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 1 (2011), it is the fifth installment in The Twilight Saga film series. The film stars Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson, and Taylor Lautner, reprising their roles as Bella Swan, Edward Cullen, and Jacob Black, respectively; Mackenzie Foy portrays Renesmee Cullen. The ensemble cast includes Billy Burke, Peter Facinelli, Elizabeth Reaser, Kellan Lutz, Nikki Reed, Jackson Rathbone, Ashley Greene, Michael Sheen, and Dakota Fanning.
Summit Entertainment announced that Breaking Dawn would be adapted into a two-part film on June 10, 2010. Principal photography for both parts began on November 1, 2010, and wrapped on April 22, 2011. The second part was shot in Baton Rouge and New Orleans, Louisiana; and Vancouver, Canada.
The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2 premiered in Los Angeles on November 12, 2012, and was theatrically released in the United States on November 16, by Summit Entertainment. The film grossed $829.7 million worldwide, becoming the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2012, the highest-grossing film of The Twilight Saga series, and the highest-grossing film released by Summit Entertainment, despite mixed reviews.

Plot
The movie continues from the events of the previous film, as Bella, who has just given birth, awakens from her human-to-vampire transformation. After Edward helps her satisfy her initial thirst, Bella is introduced to her daughter Renesmee. The rest of the Cullens and Jacob stay nearby, and when Jacob acts possessively towards Renesmee, Bella learns he has imprinted on her, making her furious until he explains he has no ill intentions.
Meanwhile, Bella's father, Charlie, has been trying to contact the Cullens for updates on Bella's health. Carlisle announces that they have to leave Forks, Washington, to protect their identities - especially because of Charlie. Jacob, desperate not to lose Renesmee, visits Charlie and tells him that Bella is alive and well, but that she had to change in order to get better. Jacob also tells him he doesn't live in the world he thinks he does, and then reveals his wolf form to him. Charlie goes to the Cullen house to see Bella and meet Renesmee. He accepts that Bella is now recovered and this is her chosen life, but he does not know what has changed her or where Renesmee came from, aside from she's 'adopted'.
Several months pass with Carlisle monitoring Renesmee's rapid growth. On an outing in the woods, a bitter Irina sees Renesmee from a distance and assumes she's an immortal child. Immortal children were vampires who were changed in childhood, and because they could not be trained nor restrained, they slaughtered entire villages. The creation of such children is outlawed by the Volturi and anyone caught with one is to be executed.
Irina goes to the Volturi, reporting what she has seen. Alice gets a vision of the Volturi and Irina coming to kill the Cullens and instructs the others to gather as many witnesses as they can to testify that Renesmee is not an immortal child. Alice and Jasper then leave to gather evidence of this. The Cullens begin to summon witnesses, such as the Denali family. One of the Denalis, Eleazar, later discovers that Bella has a special ability: a powerful mental shield that had protected her from Edward's mind-reading even when she was human, which she is taught to extend to protect others from vampire powers.
The Volturi, led by Aro, arrive in Forks prepared for battle. Seeing the large group of vampires (the Cullens and their witnesses) and wolves, they stop their procession. They are able to prove to Aro that Renesmee is not an immortal child; however, the Volturi are eager to add the gifted members of the Cullen coven to the guard, so they execute Irina in an attempt to provoke a battle. Before a fight breaks out, Alice and Jasper return and Alice shows Aro her visions of the future.
In this violent vision, she and Jasper are arrested for attacking Aro after Alice finds out he will not change his decision and kicks him in the face. Carlisle tries to save them but is murdered by Aro. Jasper is beheaded by Demetri and Jane. Alice and Sam together avenge Jasper by killing Jane. Caius is partially beheaded by Tanya (a member of the Denalis) as revenge for Irina's execution. Seth is killed by Felix. Leah saves Esme's life but loses hers in the process. Marcus welcomes his death as he is torn to pieces by Vladimir and Stefan. Aro tries to kill Edward but a joint effort from Bella and Edward kills him. The vision ends with Bella burning Aro's detached head as other Volturi members try to grab her from behind.
Aro, despite being afraid of the vision future, still wants to execute Renesmee as she might become savage. Alice and Jasper reveal their final witness, Nahuel, a half-human half-vampire just like Renesmee. He proves that he is not a threat, supporting the notion that Renesmee is not one either. The Volturi unhappily leave, Aro fearfully explaining that there will be no battle today.
Back at the Cullen home, Alice glimpses the future, seeing Edward and Bella greeting Jacob and a fully matured Renesmee, also a couple, on a sun-dappled beach. Edward reads Alice's mind and feels relieved that Renesmee has Jacob to protect her. Alone in the meadow, Bella pushes her mental shield away and finally allows Edward to see into her mind, showing him every moment they have shared together. They kiss after Bella tells him, "nobody has ever loved anybody as much as I love you", and he says "with one exception."

Cast
Gil Birmingham, Sarah Clarke, Michael Welch, Anna Kendrick, Christian Serratos, Justin Chon, Cam Gigandet, Edi Gathegi, Rachelle Lefevre, Kiowa Gordon, Tyson Houseman, Alex Meraz, Bronson Pelletier, Graham Greene, Tinsel Korey, Alex Rice, Xavier Samuel, Jodelle Ferland, Bryce Dallas Howard, and Carolina Virguez from the previous films make archival cameo appearances during the pre-credits montage accompanied by a duet version of Christina Perri’s “A Thousand Years” with Steve Kazee as the second voice.

Production
Development
On June 10, 2010, Summit Entertainment announced that a two-part adaptation of the novel Breaking Dawn would start filming in November and made clear that all major actors would return for both parts.

Pre-production
By August 2010, screenwriter Melissa Rosenberg said that the scripts for Part 1 and 2 were 75 to 85 percent completed. She found the greatest challenge in writing the scripts to be the final sequence of Part 2, explaining, "The final battle sequence is a big challenge because it lasts 25 pages. It's almost an entire three-act story in and of itself. You have to track [keep it all in one setting] hundreds of characters. It's an enormous challenge to choreograph on the page and for Bill [Condon] to choreograph on the stage." She had written various drafts of the scene but, at the time, hadn't revised or discussed them with Condon yet. She said, "That's the next big hurdle to sit down with the stunt coordinator and create the ballet. It's a lot of work. I'm exhausted, but we're intent on making them the best scripts yet." Producer Wyck Godfrey called Part 2 "an action film in terms of life-and-death stakes" and said that in Part 1 "there are the pangs of newlywed tension that occur that are relatable even in a fantasy film. Marriage is not quite the experience that they thought it was."Godfrey considered releasing the second film in 3D to differentiate between the time before and after Bella becomes a vampire, an idea originally proposed for The Twilight Saga: Eclipse, but said that the decision was up to Condon. However, he said that if the second film were to be released in 3D, he would like to shoot it with the proper equipment in "real" 3D as was done with Avatar (2009), not convert it into 3D in post-production as was done with Clash of the Titans (2010).

Filming
Principal photography started on November 1, 2010, and wrapped on April 22, 2011, ending the franchise's three years of production since March 2008. Filming was shot on location in Baton Rouge and New Orleans, Louisiana; and Vancouver, Canada. Filming also occurred at Raleigh Studios in Baton Rouge.On the subject of the final day and her final moment as Bella, Stewart stated, "After that scene, my true final scene, I felt like I could shoot up into the night sky and every pore of my body would shoot light. I felt lighter than I've ever felt in my life."In April 2012, the crew and some of the cast, including Pattinson and Stewart, returned for reshoots to pick up some additional shots for technical work. These re-shoots did not include any new scenes or dialogue.

Special effects
Tippett Studio first began working on the CGI (computer-generated imagery) wolves in February 2009 for The Twilight Saga: New Moon, and the look of the creatures has evolved, becoming more photo-real over the course of the saga, with the input of three different directors. "It's a subtle balance of just how anthropomorphic these wolves are," says Eric Leven. "Bill (Condon) wanted to make sure that we had a sense of the human or the shapeshifter in there. Finding that balance of how much of a human performance versus an animal performance was important for Bill."
Leven adds, "Bill has always treated the wolves as characters and never as computer-generated things, and directs them in the same way he'd direct any actor. He would always give us direction like Sam should be angrier. It's the best way to work. His treating these creatures as characters, instead of just computer bits, was really great."
"Because we've been working on this franchise for such a prolonged period of time, we've been able to improve the look from show to show," comments Phil Tippett. "Wolves generally are pretty darn clean and since Bill wanted the wolves rangier, that means a lot more fur matting and clumping, like they've lived out in the woods. We edged towards something a bit more feral."
"However, there is also a balance between look and technology," adds Tippett. "The body count of the wolves escalates and because we're adding a great deal more hair to get the right texture, that fur really ups the rendering time. We've gone from four wolves to eight to twelve, to sixteen in Part 2. So we have to be very careful about that balance because it takes hundreds of hours to render each wolf."

Music
It was revealed in January 2012 that the soundtrack for Part 2 had already started production. Confirmed for the soundtrack in advance were "Heart of Stone" by Iko, which plays when Edward and Bella are talking in the cottage after finding Alice's note and "Where I Come From" by Passion Pit, which will play when Bella wakes up from her transformation. The lead single from the soundtrack is "The Forgotten", performed by the American rock band Green Day. "A Thousand Years, Pt. 2" by the American singer Christina Perri is also featured on the soundtrack album.
Carter Burwell, the composer of Twilight and Breaking Dawn: Part 1, returned to score the final installment of the series.

Release
Box office
The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2 earned $292 million in North America and $537 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $829.6 million. The film is the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2012, and the highest-grossing film of the Twilight series. It had a $340.9 million worldwide opening, which was the eighth-largest ever, the largest for the Twilight franchise, and the largest for a film released outside the summer period.In North America, the film grossed $30.4 million in Thursday night and midnight showings, achieving the third-highest midnight gross and the highest midnight gross of the franchise. Breaking Dawn – Part 2 made $71.2 million on its opening day, which is the sixth-highest opening- and single-day gross as well as the third-highest of the franchise. For its opening weekend, the movie earned $141.1 million, which is the 13th-highest-grossing opening weekend of all time, the second-highest-grossing of the franchise, the third-largest November opening, and the fourth-largest opening of 2012. It retained first place in its second weekend by dropping 69.1% with a gross of $43.6 million over the three-day weekend and made a total of $64.4 million over the five-day Thanksgiving holiday weekend. In its third weekend, Breaking Dawn Part – 2 held onto the No. 1 spot again by dropping 60.1% and grossing $17.4 million. It became the third-highest-grossing film of the franchise behind Eclipse and New Moon.Outside North America, the film opened on Wednesday, November 14, 2012, in six countries earning $13.8 million. By Thursday, it had opened in 37 territories, earning $38.8 million. In all territories, it opened with similar or higher earnings than its immediate predecessor. Through its first Friday, it earned $91.0 million, after expanding to 61 territories. By the end of its opening weekend (Wednesday–Sunday), it scored a series-best $199.5 million opening from 61 territories on 12,812 screens. This is the eighth-largest opening outside North America and the largest 2012 opening. IMAX showings generated $3 million from 82 locations. The film's largest openings were recorded in the UK, Ireland, and Malta ($25.2 million), Russia and the CIS ($22.0 million), and France and the Maghreb region ($17.9 million). In Spain, it set a three-day opening-weekend record with $11.9 million. In total earnings, its three highest-grossing markets after North America are the UK, Ireland, and Malta ($57.9 million), Brazil ($54.2 million), and Russia and the CIS ($42.8 million).

Critical response
At Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 49% approval rating and an average score of 5.3/10 based on 200 reviews. The consensus states: "It's the most entertaining Twilight, but that's not enough to make Breaking Dawn Part 2 worth watching for filmgoers who don't already count themselves among the franchise converts." At Metacritic it has a weighted average score of 52 out of 100 based on reviews from 31 critics. Audiences polled on CinemaScore gave it an average rating of "A".Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter wrote, "The final installment of the immortal Bella/Edward romance will give its breathlessly awaiting international audience just what it wants". Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly said, "Breaking Dawn: Part 2 starts off slow but gathers momentum, and that's because, with Bella and Edward united against the Volturi, the picture has a real threat". Sara Stewart of the New York Post wrote, "Finally, someone took the source material at its terribly written word and stopped treating the whole affair so seriously". Justin Chang of Variety praised the performance of Stewart by saying, "No longer a mopey, lower-lip-biting emo girl, this Bella is twitchy, feral, formidable and fully energized, a goddess even among her exalted bloodsucker brethren". Manohla Dargis of The New York Times said, "Despite the slow start Mr. Condon closes the series in fine, smooth style. He gives fans all the lovely flowers, conditioned hair and lightly erotic, dreamy kisses they deserve".Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film two-and-a-half stars out of four, saying "its audience, which takes these films very seriously indeed, will drink deeply of its blood. The sensational closing sequence cannot be accused of leaving a single loophole, not even some of those we didn't know were there". He concluded by saying, ""Breaking Dawn, Part 2" must be one of the more serious entries in any major movie franchise... it bit the bullet, and I imagine fans will be pleased." Helen O'Hara of Empire gave the film a mixed review and said, "Fans will be left on a high; other viewers will be confused but generally entertained by a saga whose romance is matched only by its weirdness".

Home media
The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2 was released on DVD and Blu-ray on March 2, 2013. As of June 1, 2014, Breaking Dawn: Part 2 has sold 4,810,249 DVDs along with 1,224,869 Blu-ray Discs for $71,418,469 and $24,472,107, respectively, totaling $99,195,325.

Spin-offs
In September 2016, Lionsgate co-chairman Patrick Wachsberger stated that a sequel was "a possibility", but would only go ahead if Stephenie Meyer wanted to do one. On August 8, 2017, Variety reported that Lionsgate CEO Jon Feltheimer has interest in having spinoffs made for The Twilight Saga, and wants to create a writers' room to explore the idea.

Accolades
See also
Vampire films
Passage 15:
Reaching the Cold 100
Reaching the Cold 100 is an album recorded by the British blues band the Peter Green Splinter Group, led by Peter Green. Released in 2003, this was their eighth and final album. Green was the founder of Fleetwood Mac and a member of that group from 1967–70, before a sporadic solo career during the late 1970s and early 1980s.
This album is the only charting album by the group, at number 11 on the Billboard Blues album chart in March 2003.The album was recorded at the Roundel Studios, Kent, England, owned by Roger Cotton who also played on the album and composed some of the tracks.

Track listing
"Ain't Nothin' Gonna Change It" (Roger Cotton) – 3:28
"Look Out for Yourself" (Pete Stroud) – 4:29
"Cool Down" (Owen Parker, Nigel Watson) – 3:59
"Dangerous Man" (Cotton) – 4:06
"Needs Must the Devil Drives" (Parker, Watson) – 4:16
"Must Be a Fool" (Stroud) – 4:33
"Don't Walk Away" (Cotton) – 4:32
"Can You Tell Me Why (a.k.a. Legal Fee Blues)" (Parker, Watson) – 3:49
"Spiritual Thief" (Parker, Watson) – 4:57
"I'm Ready for You" (Stroud) – 4:39
"Smile" (Parker, Watson) – 5:17
"Nice Girl Like You" (Cotton) – 4:36
"When Somebody Cares" (Parker, Watson) – 5:26Bonus EP

"Black Magic Woman" (Peter Green) – 6:51
"It Takes Time" (Otis Rush) – 5:27
"Green Manalishi" (Green) – 4:43
"Albatross" (Green) – 3:24Some later versions including digital media (e.g. Eagle Rock version in 2003) do not include the bonus EP tracks.

Personnel
Peter Green Splinter Group
Peter Green – guitars, harmonica, vocals
Nigel Watson – guitar, vocals
Roger Cotton – guitar, keyboards, Hammond C-3 organ
Pete Stroud – bass guitar, double bass
Larry Tolfree – drums, percussion

Technical
Peter Green Splinter Group – producers
Arthur Anderson – producer, engineer
Richard "Occy" Oxley – engineer
Monty Strikes – photography
Passage 16:
List of The Young and the Restless cast members
The Young and the Restless is an American television soap opera, created by William J. Bell and Lee Phillip Bell for CBS. It first aired on March 26, 1973. The longest-running cast member is Doug Davidson, who has portrayed private investigator Paul Williams since May 23, 1978. Jeanne Cooper, who portrayed the soap opera's matriarch Katherine Chancellor, previously held the record for the series' longest-running cast member, airing from November 1973 until her death in May 2013. Melody Thomas Scott and Eric Braeden, who portray Nikki and Victor Newman, are the second and third longest-running current cast members, having joined in February 1979 and February 1980, respectively. Kate Linder has portrayed Esther Valentine since April 1982, and rounds out the series' top four longest-running cast members. The following list is of cast members who are currently on the show: both main and recurring members, as well as those who are debuting, departing or returning from the series.

Cast
Main cast
Recurring cast
Previous cast members
Passage 17:
Green Ice (soundtrack)
Green Ice is the soundtrack to the 1981 United Kingdom adventure film Green Ice starring Ryan O'Neal. The soundtrack was recorded by Bill Wyman and contains 18 original songs.

Track listing
All tracks written by Bill Wyman, except where noted.

Personnel
Bill Wyman – bass, guitars, harmonica, synthesizers, percussion
Terry Taylor – acoustic, electric and Spanish guitars, kyoto, synthesizers, percussion
Dave Mattacks – drums, percussion
Ray Cooper – Latin percussion
Doreen Chanter, Maria Muldaur, Stuart Epps – background vocals
Dave Richmond – bass on "Floating (Cloudhopper Theme)" and "Tenderness"
Tristan Fry – marimba on "Noche de Amore"
Kenny Baker – trumpet on "Colombia (Green Ice Opening Title)" and "Sol y Sombra"
Dave Lawson – vocoder, synthesizer on "Floating (Cloudhopper Theme)" and "Emerald Vault"
Ken Thorne – orchestral conductor and arranger