Passage 1:
Esther Cleveland
Esther Cleveland (September 9, 1893 – June 25, 1980) was the second child of Grover Cleveland, 22nd and 24th President of the United States, and his wife Frances Folsom Cleveland.

Biography
Esther Cleveland was born on September 9, 1893, in the White House, to the President of the United States, Grover Cleveland and the First Lady, Frances Folsom. She remains the only child of a President to have been born there. Into her maturity, the US press still referred to her as "The White House baby" (in a photograph of her in her early 20s, from a now unknown newspaper archive source).
In April 1896, she contracted measles when it spread through the White House, leading to a quarantine. Five years later, she contracted diphtheria.She made her debut in 1912 and was rumored to be engaged to Randolph D. West shortly after (which was denied by her relatives). On March 14, 1918, at Westminster Abbey, she married Captain William Sidney Bence Bosanquet (May 9, 1883 – March 5, 1966) of the Coldstream Guards of the British Army. He had liaised with the US over steel production and was the son of Sir Albert Bosanquet, the Common Serjeant of London. After WWII he was the manager of Skinningrove Iron Works in East Cleveland, England. They lived in Kirkleatham Old Hall, now Kirkleatham Museum, on the outskirts of Redcar. They bought the whole building in 1930 after half of it was initially occupied by soldiers.  Following his death, she returned to the United States and she sold the house to the local Council in 1970.As Mrs Bosanquet, she was known locally in the 1940s and 1950s for her philanthropy. Esther bridged the divergent views of her mother's opposition to suffrage, stemming from Frances Cleveland's belief that women were not ready to vote, through to supporting her daughter who went to Somerville College, Oxford. She was the mother of British philosopher Philippa Foot, who was a fellow at Oxford before holding several professorships in the States. Philippa Foot clearly had a sense of liberation from early governess education to high academic success. She said that she learned nothing from home tuition in Kirkleatham. It was "the sort of milieu where there was a lot of hunting, shooting, and fishing, and where girls simply did not go to college." Nevertheless, she had the subsequent financial support from Esther and William Bosanquet to go to school in Ascot and later to Oxford.
Esther Cleveland Bosanquet died in Tamworth, New Hampshire, in 1980 at age 86.
Passage 2:
Lucy Kennedy
Lucy Kennedy (Irish: Lusaí Ní Chinnéide; born 21 April 1976) is an Irish television and radio presenter.
Kennedy first came to public attention from co-hosting The Podge and Rodge Show on RTÉ Two. She has also presented the dating show The Ex-Files, the celebrity show Livin' with Lucy, her own chat show The Lucy Kennedy Show and the reality boxing show Charity Lords of the Ring. She is doing full-time radio work, The Colm and Lucy breakfast Show on Ireland's Classic Hits Radio. She presented The Six O'Clock Show on TV3.

Early life
Kennedy grew up in Sandycove, Dublin, the middle child of three girls. Her father is John Kennedy who would later feature alongside his daughter as her pianist on The Lucy Kennedy Show.
Lucy attended Holy Child Killiney secondary school. Kennedy's first career was as a flight attendant with Cityjet, followed by a course in television presenting and production. In 2002, she worked as a contestant researcher for an Irish version of The Weakest Link.  She later worked as a production assistant on An Tuath Nua and production co-ordinator on A Scare at Bedtime and briefly worked in sales for SPIN 1038.

Television presenter
Kennedy began presenting two series of The Ex-Files in 2004 and was approached to co-host The Podge and Rodge Show in February 2006. She described the duo as "like the older brothers I never had" but left the show after three series. In 2007, Kennedy made numerous television appearances on other shows such as No Frontiers and People in Need Telethon, as well as winning the TV Now Award for Female Personality of the Year. The same year she starred in Debbie does Dallas 21.
In April – May 2008, Kennedy featured in her own show, Livin' with Lucy, the premise of which she shared a house with celebrities such as Brian McFadden and Calum Best for a weekend. The show aired on RTÉ2 on Monday nights. During the show she was hunted by the paparazzi and the press when she stayed with the British reality-television personality Jade Goody. Kennedy encountered controversy whilst staying with Samantha Mumba when Mumba launched a verbal attack on Irish radio presenter Dave Fanning using expletives.Kennedy presented The Ian Dempsey Breakfast Show when regular host Ian Dempsey was absent on 18 July 2008.Kennedy was subject to speculation that she would take over the role of host of travel series No Frontiers from Kathryn Thomas but this did not come to pass.Her chat show, The Lucy Kennedy Show, an inhouse RTÉ production, began on 6 January 2009. Her father John was her pianist on the show. She co-presented Charity Lords of the Ring alongside Barry McGuigan in August 2009. After this she took maternity leave. She began filming the third series of Livin' with Lucy in July 2010.In September 2013, Kennedy began co-hosting Late Lunch Live alongside weatherman Martin King. Late Lunch Live replaced The Morning Show. In February 2014, she signed a contract with Virgin Media One (formerly TV3). Late Lunch Live subsequently became The Seven O'Clock Show in 2015, and now airs as The Six O'Clock Show due to the return of Emmerdale and Coronation Street to Virgin Media One in 2016.On 30 August 2017, it was announced that Kennedy would host Ireland's Got Talent. She hosted two series of Ireland's Got Talent until its cancellation in 2019.

Radio presenter
Kennedy had a "recent stint" in RTÉ 2fm with Bazil Ashmawy.On 7 May 2010, it was announced she would co-present with Colm Hayes for one month the 9 am – 12 noon slot vacated by the death of Gerry Ryan. However, she was not given the job permanently stating that she did not have the necessary experience for it.She did Weekend Breakfast with Baz & Lucy. This is a "less visible" role in the organisation that is RTÉ. On 18 April 2018 Lucy co-hosted the first edition of a new breakfast show on Radio Nova 100FM (Ireland) with Colm Hayes, called The Colm and Lucy Breakfast Show. (Colm Hayes had joined Radio Nova 100FM as its Programming Director in June 2017.) Some months prior to this launch, they had presented a one-off show on Radio Nova 100FM.

Personal life
Kennedy is married to Richard Governey; the couple have three children, two daughters and a son. She models her mother/career-oriented lifestyle on that of Miriam O'Callaghan.

Awards
Kennedy won Favourite Female TV Presenter at the 2009 TV Now Awards.
Passage 3:
Georges Bégué
Georges Pierre André Bégué (22 November 1911 – 18 December 1993), code named Bombproof, was a French engineer and agent of the United Kingdom's clandestine organization, the Special Operations Executive (SOE).  The purpose of SOE in France, occupied by Nazi Germany in World War II, was to conduct espionage, sabotage, and reconnaissance. SOE agents allied themselves with French Resistance groups and supplied them with weapons and equipment parachuted in from England.
Bégué was the first of 470 SOE F (France) Section agents infiltrated into France. He was a wireless operator. He proposed the use of BBC to transmit coded messages to resistance groups in Europe, a practice which became ubiquitous.  He also arranged for the first of many thousands of airdrops of supplies and arms to resistance groups in France.  He was captured by the French police in October 1941.  He escaped from prison in 1942 and returned to the United Kingdom.

Early life
Georges Bégué was born 22 November 1911 in Périgueux, France. His father was a railway engineer and the family moved to Egypt when Bégué was a child. Bégué also trained as an engineer at University of Hull where he learned English and met his wife. He went through his military service as a signaller.

World War II
At the outbreak of World War II, Bégué was recalled to the French army. Because of his knowledge of English he was assigned to liaison with the British troops. He eventually escaped to Britain during the Dunkirk evacuation. After the surrender of France, he joined the Royal Signals as a sergeant, meeting Thomas Cadett, the Paris correspondent of the BBC, who was working in SOE's F section who recruited him.

The first SOE agent
In 1940 SOE Bégué joined the new F (French) section. He was given the alias George Noble and trained as a wireless operator. After training, he parachuted "blind" (nobody met him on arrival) into Indre Department on the night of 5/6 May 1941 with a heavy wireless transmitter in a suitcase. He was the first SOE agent in France. He was lucky to have arrived at all, as the night before his flight the house he was staying in had been destroyed by a bomb while he was out. He contacted socialist Max Hymans near Châteauroux and persuaded him that he was a legitimate English agent. Hymans introduced him to other socialists in the area. On 9 May, he sent his first wireless message back to SOE headquarters in London. On 10/11 May, he was joined by SOE agent Pierre de Vomécourt and on 12/13 May by Roger Cottin, both also parachuted blind.The Germans quickly detected Bégué's wireless transmissions and jammed them and began to hunt for him around Châteauroux.  Nevertheless, he was able to arrange the first airdrop of supplies into France by SOE on 13 June 1941. Two containers were dropped at Bas Soleil, the estate of Pierre de Vomécourt's brother, Philippe, near Limoges. The containers were dropped by an Armstrong Whitworth Whitley bomber and contained sub-machine guns, explosives, and other material.  They were the first of nearly 60,000 containers of supplies and arms air-dropped to SOE operatives and resistance groups during World War II.Bégué and Pierre de Vomécourt created the first of about 90 SOE networks (also called circuits and reseau) in France. Their network was called Autogiro. Georges Bégué is sometimes called "Georges One" as he was the first SOE wireless operator in France.  Subsequent wireless operators were called "Georges Two, Georges Three, etc. The SOE's slang term for a wireless operator was a "pianist."

Engaging the BBC
Bégué had an exhausting schedule, often transmitting and receiving messages to and from SOE three times a day. In addition he often had to serve as a courier traveling by train to deliver or receive messages to other SOE agents. As the Germans and French police were attempting to locate him and his wireless through direction-finding equipment, Bégué proposed sending seemingly obscure personal messages to agents in the field in order to reduce risky radio traffic. In accordance with his proposal, the BBC's Radio Londres broadcasts began with "Please listen to some personal messages," followed by spoken messages, often amusing, and without context. Representative messages include "Jean has a long mustache" and "There is a fire at the insurance agency," each one having some meaning to a certain resistance group. They were used primarily to provide messages to the resistance, but also to thank SOE agents and sometimes to mislead the enemy. Because these messages were in code, not cipher, the German occupiers could not hope to decipher them unless they had infiltrated a resistance group, so they focused their efforts on jamming the messages instead. The transmission of coded messages by Radio Londres became ubiquitous in World War II.

Arrest
The SOE parachuted in a number of additional agents in September 1941.  One agent, Gerry Morel, went his own way to recruit resistance members. The Milice, the Vichy France police, arrested him at Limoges on 3 October 1941. His arrest led to more arrests and eventually to Bégué, who was arrested 24 October in a Marseilles safe house. He was sent to join a dozen SOE agents in the Beleyme prison in Périgueux. They were later transferred to a prison camp in Mauzac-et-Grand-Castang, Dordogne in March 1942, thanks to intervention of the American Consul-General Hugh Fullerton. Bégué smuggled out a message to London, bribed a guard, and created a duplicate key and the group escaped 16 July 1942. SOE agent Michael Trotobas was one of the escapees as was Jean-Pierre Bloch, whose wife, Gabrielle Sadourny, assisted in the escape.Bégué and the other escapees hid in a forest while the French police searched for them and then continued to Lyon in separate groups. Bégué arrived on 23 July. SOE agent, American Virginia Hall, was in contact with the Vic escape network and eventually the escapees were led over the Pyrenees to neutral Spain where Bégué was interned at Figueres and sent to Miranda de Ebro prison camp but was later released to continue to England. He arrived in London in October 1942.The SOE in London had changed leadership in his absence and Bégué had little confidence in the new SOE leader, Maurice Buckmaster.  He was named signals officer, but believed his talents were under-utilized.

After the war
After the war Bégué emigrated to the United States. He worked in a number of lower-level jobs until he could officially become an electronics engineer. He also became an American citizen. He died 18 December 1993 in Falls Church, Virginia. He was 82 years old. Begues was survived by his wife Rosemary and two daughters, Brigitte and Suzanne.

See also
SOE F Section timeline
SOE F Section networks
Passage 4:
Frances Freeling Broderip
Frances Freeling Broderip (née Hood) (11 September 1830 – 3 November 1878) was an English children's writer.

Early life
Broderip, second daughter of Thomas Hood, the poet, who died in 1845, by his wife, Jane Reynolds, who died in 1846, was born at Winchmore Hill, Middlesex, in 1830. She was named after her father's friend, Sir Francis Freeling, the secretary to the general post office. Her younger brother was the humourist Tom Hood.

Marriage
On 10 September 1849 she married the Rev. John Somerville Broderip, son of Edward Broderip of Cossington Manor, (d. 1847), by his wife Grace Dory, daughter of Benjamin Greenhill. Her husband was born at Wells, Somersetshire, in 1814, educated at Eton, and at Balliol College, Oxford, where he took his B.A. 1837, M.A. 1839, became rector of Cossington, Somersetshire, 1844, and died at Cossington on 10 April 1866. The couple had four daughters.

Publications
In 1857 Mrs. Broderip commenced her literary career by the publication of Wayside Fancies, which was followed in 1860 by Funny Fables for Little Folks, the first of a series of her works to which the illustrations were supplied by her brother, Tom Hood. Her other books appeared in the following order:

Chrysal, or a Story with an End 1861
Fairyland, or Recreations for the Rising Generation. By T. and J. Hood, and their Son and Daughter 1861
Tiny Tadpole, and other Tales 1862
My Grandmother's Budget of Stories 1863
Merry Songs for Little Voices. By F. F. Broderip and T. Hood 1865
Crosspatch, the Cricket, and the Counterpane 1865
Mamma's Morning Gossips 1866
Wild Roses: Simple Stories of Country Life 1867
The Daisy and her Friends: Tales and Stories for Children 1869
Tales of the Toys told by Themselves 1869
Excursions into Puzzledom. By T. Hood the Younger, and F. F. Broderip 1879In 1860, with the assistance of her brother, Tom Hood, she edited Memorials of Thomas Hood, 2 vols., and in 1869 selected and published the Early Poems and Sketches of her father. She also, in conjunction with her brother, published in a collected form The Works of T. Hood, 1869–73, 10 vols.

Death
She died at Clevedon on 3 November 1878, in her forty-ninth year, and was buried in St. Mary's churchyard, Walton by Clevedon, on 9 November, leaving issue four daughters.
Passage 5:
Andy Barclay
Andy Barclay is a fictional character and protagonist of the Child's Play horror film series. He is a young boy who, after receiving a Good Guy doll for his sixth birthday, is the prime suspect in a series of mysterious murders. In reality the murders are being committed by the doll, which was possessed by serial killer Charles Lee Ray (aka Chucky). The duo go on to become archenemies. Andy Barclay is portrayed by actor Alex Vincent in the original Child's Play film, Child's Play 2, Curse of Chucky, Cult of Chucky and in the Chucky television series. Justin Whalin played Andy in Child's Play 3, while Gabriel Bateman played Andy in the 2019 reboot of Child's Play. Andy is mentioned, but does not appear in Bride of Chucky and Seed of Chucky.

History
Child's Play (1988)
Andy Barclay is celebrating his sixth birthday and really wants a Good Guy doll for his present. He even makes his mother breakfast in bed, to show her how good he is. However, the dolls are too expensive for her salary, and he ends up getting clothes instead. Seeing her son's disappointment, after she drops him off at daycare, Karen buys a doll for half price from a peddler unaware that the doll is possessed by the soul of a serial killer named Charles Lee Ray. Karen takes the doll back home to him, and he is very overjoyed to have a new best friend.
As Karen must go back to work, her best friend Maggie volunteers to babysit. The night goes by uneventfully until Maggie tells him that it is time for bed. Andy says that his doll, Chucky, wants to stay up to watch the 9 o'clock news. Thinking he is lying, she sends him to go brush his teeth but confronts him again when she finds Chucky on the couch with the TV on. Although Andy denies moving Chucky to the couch, she thinks Andy is really joking. She tucks him into bed, then goes to read a book. Later that night, when Maggie mysteriously falls to her death from the window, Andy is questioned by detective Mike Norris. During the investigation, Karen comes back home and is angered by Norris falsely implying that her son had something to do with Maggie's death. She kicks the detectives out and then goes to check on her son. She sees him talking to his doll, and thinks it is innocent enough until Andy says that the doll told him, "Aunt Maggie was a real b**** and got what she deserved."
The next day, Chucky gets Andy to bring him to the house of Chucky's former accomplice, Eddie Caputo. While Andy goes to urinate, Chucky manages to blow up the building, killing Eddie. The detectives are called in to check out the scene and again find Andy there. As they see this as more than a coincidence, they get Dr. Ardmore to monitor as Jack questions, Andy. When Jack asks why Maggie fell out of the window, Andy says that she saw Chucky, and it scared her so much she fell down. Karen comes to Andy's side, and explains that no one believes him; if he does not tell the truth, the police will take him away from her. Afraid, Andy confronts Chucky, begging him to say something. As he simply repeats his doll lines, he runs to his mother, telling her Chucky is doing it on purpose and would kill him if he ever told anyone about him. From behind the glass, Dr. Ardmore announces his presence. Seeing more than enough, he suggests Andy stay a few days at the hospital, and with no real choice, Karen reluctantly hands over her son.
At his hospital room, Andy hears Chucky coming up the stairs and screams for Dr. Ardmore to help which he does nothing. Chucky manages to get into Andy's room, but by that time Andy had escaped. Andy finds his way downstairs and into the operating room, followed by Chucky. After being knocked to the ground by Chucky, he picks a scalpel up and prepares to defend himself. However, he is seized by Dr. Ardmore, who puts him on the bed. Despite Andy's claims that Chucky is in the room, Ardmore goes to sedate him. Before he can do it though, Chucky kills Ardmore, allowing Andy to escape the hospital.
Andy makes it back to the apartment, but Chucky follows him. Chucky knocks him unconscious with a baseball bat and begins the ritual to transfer his soul. Luckily Norris and Karen burst in just in time to save Andy. After a brief fight, Karen throws Chucky into the fireplace, and despite Chucky's pleading, Andy lights a match and sets Chucky on fire. Hearing Norris in the bedroom, the two go to his side, and Karen tells Andy to retrieve the first aid kit from under the sink. However, as he goes, he notices that Chucky is missing from the fireplace. Completely charred, Chucky chases Andy, who runs back to the bedroom. Karen shoots him several times, missing his heart, but knocking off his head.
Jack later arrives and brings the doll's head into the bedroom. Unbeknownst to him, Chucky's body breaks through the air vent behind Jack and strangles him. As Karen pulls Chucky's body off Jack, Mike shoots him in the heart, finally killing him. Fearfully looking at Chucky's remains, Andy leaves with Karen and Jack to take Mike to the hospital.

Child's Play 2
Now eight years old, Andy is sent to a foster home with Phil and Joanne Simpson, as his mother Karen is undergoing a psychiatric evaluation after what transpired in the previous movie. Although the family is very nice, they become suspicious the next morning when one of Joanne's antiques is broken (by Chucky, who used the antique to destroy the family's existing Good Guy doll). Both Andy and his foster sister Kyle deny doing anything, so Phil sends them to do the laundry. Later that night, Chucky manages to track Andy down and invades the house, and goes into Andy's room. He ties him to the bed and begins the voodoo chant to transfer his soul. However, before he can finish, Kyle sneaks back into the house through Andy's window after seeing her boyfriend. She tries to untie Andy as Phil and Joanne walk in on them. They accuse Kyle of tying up Andy as a sick joke and ignore Andy's pleas that the doll is alive. Chucky is thrown in the basement by Phil. Chucky realizes he has a nosebleed, which he attributes because he is becoming more human as time goes on.
The next morning, Andy goes to his first day of school, and Chucky follows. While his teacher Miss Kettlewell is reading a story to the class, there is a disruption by a bully teasing Andy. She thinks Andy is the source and scolds him for it. During recess, Chucky enters the classroom and writes obscenities on Andy's test paper. When the day is over, Miss Kettlewell uncovers the paper and forces him to stay after school for detention. She mistakenly locks him inside the classroom after throwing Chucky in the closet, while she leaves to phone Phil. Andy tries to call for help from anybody on the other side of the locked door, but to no avail. Chucky begins shouting from the closet for Andy to let him out, but Andy instead escapes by opening the window and running home. Miss Kettlewell returns to the classroom to find Andy gone. Hearing a sound from the closet and believing Andy is hiding within, she opens the door to reveal a fully alive Chucky. Chucky stabs her with an air pump that knocks her back, after which he beats her to death with a yardstick.
When Andy comes home, Phil confronts him about his test paper, and Andy explains that Chucky did it. Phil takes him to the basement to prove the doll is not alive and surprisingly, Chucky is there. In the middle of the night, Andy hears a sound coming from downstairs. He arms himself with a knife and proceeds into the basement. From there he is attacked by Chucky but is saved by Phil coming downstairs. Andy tries to warn Phil about Chucky, but Chucky trips him, causing him to fall and break his neck. When Joanne finds Phil's dead body, she blames Andy for Phil's death and sends him back to the orphanage.
While at the orphanage, the fire alarm is pulled, Andy and his caseworker Grace run into Kyle as they try to evacuate. Grace blames Kyle, who is being held at knifepoint by Chucky, and pulls her and Andy back to her office. When Grace takes the doll from Kyle, Chucky pulls out his knife and stabs the caseworker to death. Chucky grabs Andy and forces him to go to the Play Pals factory, with Kyle running after them. From there, he knocks Andy unconscious and begins to say the chant. However, the chant fails; Chucky is trapped in his doll form forever. Enraged, Chucky goes to kill Andy but is subdued by Kyle. She takes Andy and runs through the factory, while Chucky tries to stop them. But before getting them, Andy pours molten plastic on Chucky, partially melting his head. Andy and Kyle then jam an air hose into his mouth, causing his head to explode, finally killing him. Both Andy and Kyle leave the factory together, towards uncertain futures.

Child's Play 3
Eight years later, Andy is now sixteen years old. He has been thrown out of numerous foster homes, and Social Services has enrolled him in a military academy as a last destination. The head of the school, Cochran, agrees to let Andy in because he has had a rough life, but tells him to grow up and forget the killer doll fantasies. Andy is placed in a bunk with another student, Harold Whitehurst, who he finds bound and gagged in their closet. This was done by Cadet/Lieutenant/Colonel Brett Shelton, who uses his position to bully Andy. Regardless of Shelton's bullying, he is able to keep his friend Whitehurst; he also meets another student named Kristen De Silva, and the two develop a strong romantic relationship.
Unbeknownst to Andy, Chucky has shipped himself to the academy, in order to transfer his soul into his now teenaged nemesis. During the night, he confronts Andy in his room and reveals his plan to transfer his soul into a different child's body: Ronald Tyler, an 8-year-old returning cadet whom Andy had befriended when he first arrived at the academy. Tyler was tasked with delivering a package to Andy (which was in fact Chucky) earlier, but Tyler realized it was a Good Guy doll and planned to keep it for himself. When Chucky burst free from the package, he was initially furious that Tyler didn't take the package to Andy, but soon realizes it would be way easier to possess this unsuspecting new child. Chucky now plans to kill Andy so he can't stop him but Andy thwarts him off until Shelton enters the room. He finds Andy slamming Chucky against the floor, and rudely takes Chucky from him. The next morning, Andy approaches Tyler and asks him about Chucky and not to trust him, mentioning all the bad Chucky did when he was a little boy. Tyler snaps that he is just jealous that Chucky did not pick him first. Still worried for Tyler's life and knowing he must be a protector like his mother Karen and his foster sister Kyle were to him when he was younger, Andy decides to give him a pocket knife in case Chucky tries to transfer his soul into Tyler's body again and he is not around to protect him.
When the school's annual paintball war begins, Andy sneaks off to find Tyler, who had run away from Chucky in the woods. Realizing that Andy was right and that Chucky is truly alive and evil, Tyler stabs the doll with the pocket knife and escapes. He later meets up with Andy and the rest of the blue team. Chucky next attacks Kristen, using her as a hostage to lure out Andy and exchange Tyler for her. After their exchange, the red team comes into the area, and instead of shooting paintballs, they shoot live bullets that Chucky secretly placed in their guns. In the chaos, Tyler briefly escapes only to find himself once again held hostage by Chucky. Kristen and Andy follow Chucky and Tyler into a haunted house at a nearby carnival.
In an attempt to keep her from rescuing Tyler, Chucky shoots Kristen in the leg, leaving Andy to fight him alone. After a struggle, Tyler is knocked out, and Chucky begins his ritual chant. However, before he finishes, Andy reaches them on the top of a skull-covered mountain prop. He shoots Chucky in the arm and chest, causing Chucky to lose his weapon. Even after being disarmed, Chucky pounces on Andy and attempts to strangle him. Tyler awakens and gives Andy his pocket knife from earlier. Andy uses it to slice off Chucky's remaining hand, causing the doll to fall into a giant fan that shreds him to pieces. After leaving the haunted house, Andy visits Kristen, who is being treated by medics, and allows himself to be arrested. Andy is last seen riding off in the backseat of a police car.

Bride of Chucky
Andy is briefly mentioned in a newspaper article titled "Boy claims doll possessed by killer's soul".

Seed of Chucky
Andy is indirectly mentioned by Chucky during his "what's so great about being human anyway" speech by referencing his numerous victims and enemies.

Curse of Chucky
Six months after Chucky attacked Nica, the adult Andy gets a package delivered, and brings it inside. Before opening it, he receives a phone call from his mother, Karen. As Andy talks about his birthday dinner at Karen's place, Chucky cuts his way out of the box. Ready to kill, Chucky turns around, only to see Andy pointing a shotgun directly at his face. When Chucky shockingly says Andy, Andy says to play with this to Chucky, and before Chucky can explain where Andy has been since Child's Play 3, Andy fires his shotgun through Chucky's head.

Cult of Chucky
After the events of Curse of Chucky, Andy now keeps Chucky's severed head to torture in retribution for his crimes. Tapes later reveal that Andy had tried to prove Nica Pierce's innocence by showing Chucky to her psychiatrist Dr. Foley, but it was dismissed as special effects. Learning that Chucky had managed to transfer his soul into multiple Good Guy dolls, Andy sends a Good Guy that he had shaved to the asylum and drives there. When he is unable to get in due to visiting hours being over, he commits himself by punching the security guard, being locked in a cell. When a Chucky doll he previously maimed arrives at his cell to kill him, Andy restrains the doll and rips a gun out of the doll's stomach. Andy shoots the short-haired Chucky three times and stomps its head in, killing it instantly. When Nica, now possessed by Chucky's soul, arrives at his cell, Andy attempts to shoot her but his gun jams. Chucky/Nica then locks Andy inside of his cell and escapes, but it is later implied that Andy had escaped the hospital to find and track down the remaining Chucky dolls with his foster sister Kyle after he sent her to his cabin to torture the still alive Chucky head from the first seven films.

Chucky (TV Series)
After the events of the film Cult of Chucky, in the premiere of Chucky the series, Andy calls Jake after he posts online finding a Good Guy Doll and he's selling it. Andy tells Jake if the doll's name is Chucky he is possessed and to check to see if he has batteries to believe him. Andy asks who is there implying someone is at his location and the phone goes dead.
In the sixth episode of the series, Andy and his foster sister, Kyle, are seen hunting down the remaining possessed Chucky dolls. After entering a family's home, Chucky reveals himself to Andy while holding a knife to a child's throat, Andy shoots Chucky in the head with his pistol and then continues to shoot him with Kyle by his side and he is finally dead.
Later in the same episode, Andy is contacted by Jake Wheeler and Devon Evans in hopes of help with defeating Chucky. Andy and Kyle pick up the phone, and ask Jake for his location and how many people he has told about the murderous doll.
In the seventh episode of the series, Andy had left his foster sister Kyle behind at a gas station for her own good and at the end of the episode, Andy rings the doorbell of Junior Wheeler's house with Chucky and his protege Junior (who just got through murdering his father) looking on from the window.
The season finale picks up directly after the ending of episode 7, with Junior letting Andy inside the house. Andy asks for Jake, under the guise of being a collector of Good Guy dolls whom Jake was going to sell Chucky to. After asking Junior if he knows where his father or Chucky could be (as he slyly investigates the house), Junior lies, claiming that his father must've left and took the doll with him. Seemingly convinced, Andy leaves the house. Later in the episode, Andy arrives at Charles Lee Ray's old house and rescues Devon, who had been held hostage by Chucky/Nica the previous night. Devon quickly warns Andy that Tiffany had rigged a bomb to go off at the front door as a death trap if anyone opens it and Andy takes caution. Kyle arrives at the house, calling out Andy's name. Chucky decides to use the generic Good Guy Doll voice to sound like a child crying for help in order to lure Kyle to the front door and trick her into opening it. Andy attempts to warn Kyle about the bomb but it appears to be too late, as the bomb destroys the house and presumably takes the lives of Andy, Devon, and Kyle. However, Andy is ultimately revealed to have survived the explosion, along with Devon, who'd originally believed Andy to be dead after he managed to escape. Andy had hidden out in the delivery truck carrying the boxes of Good Guy dolls (which Chucky had possessed at the end of episode 7) at the town's benefit screening of Frankenstein. Andy knocks out the truck's driver, and takes the wheel. Before he drives off to apparently destroy the dolls, he shares a brief glance with Jake, Devon, and Lexy (who are standing outside of the theater after defeating the Chuckys inside), and gives them a thumbs up and a silent nod. As he makes his exit, he flips off an upset Tiffany and leaves Hackensack. The doll version of Tiffany suddenly appears and holds Andy at gunpoint and tells him to drive the truck to the airport so the Good Guy dolls can still be shipped out, however Andy foils this plan by driving the truck off a cliff.
He is not seen again until season 2, episode 5, where Lexy and Devon discover a cabin on the outskirts of the Incarnate Lord School while on a search for the source of the Chuckys in the school. In this cabin, they discover Andy, revealed to have survived the crash, held captive alongside Dr. Mixter and being tortured by The Colonel, a bald-headed Chucky that had also survived the crash. Lexy and Devon free Andy, and he returns to the school. He kills The Colonel but is disturbed to see another Chucky doll, named Good Chucky, who had seemingly undergone a redemption at the hands of Jake and Devon; Andy's suspicions are proven accurate when Chucky takes over Good Chucky's psyche and kills Lexy's roommate, Nadine. Andy reunites with Kyle, who had faked her death, and he assists the school's headmaster, Father Bryce, with performing an exorcism on Good Chucky to send Chucky to Hell. After Nica Pierce performs a voodoo ritual to transfer Chucky Prime - the Chucky who had possessed her over a year earlier - into Good Chucky's body, Dr. Mixter and Chucky Prime flee. Andy chases them down and kills Chucky Prime, but Dr. Mixter escapes. Andy and Kyle, now finally considering themselves free from Chucky, leave the school to an optimistic future.

Other appearances
In 1991, Andy appeared in 3 issues (1,2, & 5) of the "Child's Play" comics, which were based on the first film. He was also in all issues based on Child's Play 2 in 1992 and all based on Child's Play 3 in 1993.
Andy appears in the novelization of Child's Play 2 and the novelization of Child's Play 3.
In 1999,  clips of Andy are shown in the television series Where Are They Now?, as part of the episode Horror Movie Stars.
Andy is shown throughout the documentary Evil Comes in Small Packages, which was included as a special feature in the 20th anniversary edition of Child's Play in 2008.
Archive footage of Andy is shown in the 2001 horror documentary Boogeymen: The Killer Compilation.

Reception
Alex Vincent's performance as Andy has been praised for being "one of the best child performances in a horror movie" and for being able to create an "emotional connection" with the audience. From his first scene in the movie to his sobbing in the hospital room he is able to bring out emotions that seem far too real. The article went on to say:

"Watching him sob alone in his tiny hospital room feels like seeing my own kid cry – but not the kind of crying when he doesn't get his way or stubs his toe. It's the kind of crying informed by genuine sadness. There is a hopelessness to the way Alex Vincent plays that scene that's impossible to reproduce. What makes his performance great is that it is totally, effortlessly authentic. He is not manufacturing motivation, nor calculating his delivery. He is reacting purely in the moment. When they are best friends, he interacts with Chucky like it's an actual toy that he loves (the way he excitedly talks to the doll way too loudly when they first interact is another great moment in the movie). When Chucky goes bad, Vincent's fear – and even heartbreak – is totally real."Dustin Putman stated in a review that he was "always convincing as an endangered... son faced with an unthinkable terror." Another article went as far as to say Vincent's portrayal "was what made that series as much as Brad Dourif doing the voice of Chucky."
Passage 6:
Giovanni Pisano
Giovanni Pisano (c. 1250 – c. 1315) was an Italian sculptor, painter and architect, who worked in the cities of Pisa, Siena and Pistoia.  He is best known for his sculpture which shows the influence of both the French Gothic and the Ancient Roman art.  Henry Moore, referring to his statues for the facade of Siena Cathedral, called him "the first modern sculptor".

History
Born in Pisa, Giovanni Pisano was the son of the famous sculptor Nicola Pisano. He received his training in the workshop of his father and in 1265–1268 he worked with his father on the pulpit in Siena Cathedral.  His next major work with his father was the fountain Fontana Maggiore in Perugia (completed 1278).  Nicola Pisano is thought to have died either around 1278 or in 1284 when Giovanni took up residence in Siena. These first works were made in Nicola's style and it is difficult to separate the contributions of the two artists. However the Madonna with Child can be attributed with certainty to Giovanni, showing a new style with a certain familiarity between Mother and Child.

 
Giovanni's next work was at Pisa Cathedral, sculpting the statues in the two rows of traceried gables at the exterior of the Baptistry (1277–1284). The vivacity of these statues is a new confirmation that he had left the serene style of his father behind. Between 1287 and 1296 he was appointed chief architect of Siena Cathedral. The architectural design and elegant sculptures for the facade of the cathedral in Siena show his tendency to blend Gothic art with reminders of Roman art. The work was continued after his death, with still greater Gothic elaboration, by Memmo di Filippuccio.
In 1296 he returned to Pisa to begin work on the Church of San Giovanni. In 1301 he continued his work on the Pulpit of Sant' Andrea, Pistoia which he had already started in 1297. The pulpit has five reliefs: the Annunciation and Nativity; the Adoration, the Dream of the Magi and the Angel warning Joseph; the Massacre of the Innocents; the Crucifixion; and the Last Judgement.
Giovanni's work between 1302 and 1310 at the new pulpit for the Cathedral of Pisa shows his distinct preference for animation in his characters and moved his father's style even further away. This pulpit with its dramatic scenes has become his masterwork.  It shows nine scenes from the New Testament, carved in white marble with a chiaroscuro effect. It contains even a bold, naturalistic depiction of a naked Hercules. His figure Prudence in the pulpit may have been an inspiration for the Eve in the painting The Expulsion from the Garden of Eden by Masaccio.  After the fire of 1595, it was packed away during the redecoration and was not rediscovered and re-erected until 1926.
The church of San Nicola in Pisa was enlarged between 1297 and 1313 by the Augustinians, perhaps by the design of Giovanni Pisano. He was also responsible of the façade of San Paolo a Ripa d'Arno.  His last major work dates probably from 1313 when he made a monument in memory of Margaret of Brabant (who died in 1311) at the request of her husband emperor Henry VII.

Legacy
One of his pupils was Giovanni di Balduccio, who also became a famous sculptor, and the architect and sculptor Agostino da Siena. He also had an influence on the painter Pietro Lorenzetti. Giorgio Vasari included a biography of Pisano in his book Le vite dei più eccellenti pittori, scultori, e architetti
The asteroid 7313 Pisano was named to honour Nicola and Giovanni Pisano.

Gallery
See also
Giovanni di Cecco
Duccio
Arnolfo di Cambio
Passage 7:
Jazziza
Aziza Mustafa Zadeh (Azerbaijani: Əzizə Mustafazadə; born December 19, 1969) is an Azerbaijani singer, pianist, and composer who plays a fusion of jazz and mugham (a traditional improvisational style of Azerbaijan) with classical and avant-garde influences.

Biography
Aziza was born in Baku to musical parents Vagif and Elza Mustafa Zadeh (née Bandzeladze).
Aziza's parents first noticed their daughter's sensitivity to music when she was eight months old. Aziza recalls the story as her mother tells it: Once, my father was improvising at the piano playing in the mugam mode known as 'Shur', which creates a mood that evokes very deep, sad emotions. As my father was playing, I started to cry. Everyone wondered what was happening to me. Why was I crying? And then mother realized the correlation between my feelings and the music. 'Vagif, please,' she told my father, 'change the scale. Go to Rast. Play Rast.' And he did. Now 'Rast' is characterized by its joyfulness and optimism. And sure enough, with tears still running down my cheeks, I started to make dance-like movements. And Mom pointed out, 'Look, look what she's doing! Change back to Shur!' And when he did, I started crying again louder than before. At least, that's what they tell me. Back to Rast, and I began dancing again.
Aziza enjoyed all forms of art, especially dancing, painting and singing. At the age of three, she made her stage debut with her father, improvising vocals. She began studying classical piano at an early age, showing special interest in the works of famous composers Johann Sebastian Bach and Frédéric Chopin. Soon thereafter, she showed a growing talent for improvisation.On December 16, 1979, Aziza's father died of a severe heart attack in Tashkent at the age of 39. In order to help her daughter cope with this blow, Aziza's mother gave up her career as a singer to help nurture her daughter's own musical talents.
In 1988, at the age of 18, Aziza's mugam-influenced style helped her win third place together with American Matt Cooper in the Herbie Hancock Institute of Jazz (formerly Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz) piano competition in Washington, D.C. It was around this time that she moved to Germany with her mother.
Aziza released her debut album, Aziza Mustafa Zadeh, in 1991. The album showed influence of Chick Corea and  Keith Jarrett, as well as Near Eastern music. Her second album, Always, won her the Phono Academy Prize, a prestigious German music award, and the Echo Prize from Sony. She has since performed in many countries with many jazz and traditional luminaries and released several more albums, the most recent being Generations, released in 2020.
Aziza currently resides in Mainz, Germany, with her mother, Elza Mustafa Zadeh, who is also her manager. Her two favorite leisure activities, she says, are painting and sleeping. She is a vegetarian. She believes in God, though she does not consider herself as belonging to any religion.

Baku Jazz Festival 2007
Aziza visited Azerbaijan in June 2007 for the Baku Jazz Festival, starring in her own concert at the Azerbaijan State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater and headlining the end-of-festival concert at the open-air Green Theater.

Discography
Aziza Mustafa Zadeh (1991)
Always (1993)
Dance of Fire (1995)
Seventh Truth (1996)
Jazziza (1997)
Inspiration – Colors & Reflections (2000)
Shamans (2002)
Contrasts (2006)
Contrasts II (2007)
Generations (2020)
Passage 8:
Heather O'Rourke
Heather Michele O'Rourke (December 27, 1975 – February 1, 1988) was an American child actress. She had her breakthrough starring as Carol Anne Freeling in the supernatural horror film Poltergeist (1982), which received critical acclaim and established her as an influential figure in the genre. She went on to reprise the role in Poltergeist II: The Other Side (1986) and Poltergeist III (1988), the latter of which was released posthumously.
O'Rourke also worked in television, appearing in the recurring roles of Heather Pfister on the comedy series Happy Days (1982–1983) and Melanie in the sitcom Webster (1983), as well as starring as Sarah Brogan in the television-film Surviving: A Family in Crisis (1985).
Throughout her career, O'Rourke was nominated for six Young Artist Awards, winning once for her role in Webster. On February 1, 1988, O'Rourke died following two cardiac arrests, her cause of death later being ruled as congenital stenosis of the intestine complicated by septic shock.

Early life
Heather Michele O'Rourke was born on December 27, 1975, in San Diego, to Kathleen and Michael O'Rourke. Her mother worked as a seamstress and her father was a carpenter. She had an older sister, Tammy O'Rourke, also an actress. Her parents divorced in 1981, and O'Rourke's mother married part-time truck driver Jim Peele in 1984, while they were living in a trailer park in Anaheim, California. Her success later allowed the family to purchase a home in Big Bear Lake, California. Between acting jobs, O'Rourke attended Big Bear Elementary School, where she was president of her 5th grade class. At the time of her death, the family was living in Lakeside, California, a suburb of San Diego.

Acting career
In a contemporary interview with American Premiere magazine, producer Steven Spielberg explained that he was looking for a "beatific four-year-old child...every mother's dream" for the lead in his horror film Poltergeist (1982). While eating in the MGM commissary, Spielberg saw five-year-old O'Rourke having lunch with her mother while older sister Tammy was shooting Pennies from Heaven. After his lunch, Spielberg approached the family and offered O'Rourke the Poltergeist role; she was signed the next day, beating out Drew Barrymore, who instead received the role of Gertie in E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial.

In Poltergeist, O'Rourke played Carol Anne Freeling, a young suburban girl who becomes the conduit and target for supernatural entities. During production, Spielberg twice accommodated the child actress when frightened; when scared by performing a particular stunt, Spielberg replaced O'Rourke with a stunt double wearing a blonde wig, and when disturbed by the portrayal of child abuse, Spielberg did not require her to perform the take again. For her work on the film, O'Rourke earned between $35,000 and $100,000. Poltergeist would go on to receive a cult following and critical acclaim, garnering three Academy Award nominations and a Young Artist Award nomination for O'Rourke. She was lauded for her performance, with The New York Times noting that she played a key role, writing that "With her wide eyes, long blonde hair and soft voice, she was so striking that the sequel played off her presence." Her delivery of the lines "They're here!" in the first film, and "They're baa-aack!" in the second (that film's tagline), placed her in the collective pop culture consciousness of the United States. "They're here!" is ranked No. 69 on the American Film Institute's list of 100 Movie Quotes, and PopSugar included the line on their list of "100 Greatest Movie Quotes".After her work in Poltergeist (1982), O'Rourke secured several television and TV movie roles. In April 1983, she starred as herself alongside Morey Amsterdam and well-known Walt Disney animated characters in the hour-long television special, Believe You Can...and You Can! She also appeared in CHiPs, Webster, The New Leave It to Beaver, Our House, and had a recurring role on Happy Days as Heather Pfister. For Webster, O'Rourke won her first Young Artist Award. She also appeared in the television movies Massarati and the Brain and Surviving: A Family in Crisis. O'Rourke went on to reprise the role of Carol Anne Freeling in the second and third installments, Poltergeist II: The Other Side in 1986 and Poltergeist III in 1988 respectively; unlike its predecessor, the films garnered mixed reviews, although O'Rourke's performances were praised. Poltergeist III was her final feature, released in June 1988, four months after her death.

Illness and death
In early 1987, O'Rourke became ill with giardiasis, which she contracted from well water at her family's home in Big Bear Lake. She was subsequently diagnosed as having Crohn's disease. She was prescribed cortisone injections to treat the disease during the time she was filming Poltergeist III. The steroidal injections resulted in facial swelling of the cheeks, which O'Rourke's mother said she was very self-conscious about.
On January 31, 1988, O'Rourke began exhibiting flu-like symptoms. The following morning, she collapsed in her home, and was rushed to Community Hospital in El Cajon. En route, she suffered cardiac arrest, but paramedics were able to restart her heart at 9:25 a.m. She was subsequently flown to the Children's Hospital of San Diego, where it was discovered she had intestinal stenosis and went into emergency surgery. She survived the surgery, but suffered another cardiac arrest while in the recovery room. Doctors performed CPR for over 30 minutes, but O'Rourke was pronounced dead at 2:43 that afternoon. O'Rourke's cause of death was ruled congenital stenosis of the intestine complicated by septic shock.Daniel Hollander, the head of gastroenterology at the University of California, Irvine Medical Center stated that O'Rourke's death was "distinctly unusual" as she lacked prior symptoms of the bowel defect: "I would have expected a lot of [digestive] difficulties throughout her life and not just to have developed a problem all of a sudden." However, Dr. Hollander further stated that it was possible for congenital bowel narrowing to cause sudden death without symptoms if an infection caused the bowel to rupture. A private funeral was held for O'Rourke on February 5 in Los Angeles, and she was entombed at Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery.

Filmography
Film
Television
Accolades
Awards and nominations
O'Rourke was nominated for a collective six Young Artist Awards, one of which was won for her performance on the series Webster in 1985.

Honors
On the American Film Institute's 2005 list of "100 Movie Quotes", O'Rourke's delivery of "They're here!" in Poltergeist is ranked No. 69.
On PopSugar's 2021 list of "100 Greatest Movie Quotes", O'Rourke's delivery of "They're here!" in Poltergeist is listed.
Passage 9:
Liliana Mumy
Liliana Berry Davis Mumy (; born April 16, 1994) is an American actress. Between 2002 and 2006, she appeared as Jessica Baker in Cheaper by the Dozen and its sequel, as well as  Lucy Miller in the second and third films of The Santa Clause trilogy.
In animation, Mumy performed the voice of Mertle Edmonds in the Lilo & Stitch franchise as well as Twinkle in Higglytown Heroes. For Cartoon Network, she has voiced Panini in Chowder. For Nickelodeon, she has voiced Human Kimberly in Catscratch, Roxy in the Nickelodeon revival of Winx Club, and Leni Loud in The Loud House.

Personal life
Mumy was born in San Marcos, California, the daughter of Eileen Joy Mumy (née Davis), a childbirth educator, and former child star Bill Mumy. She is the younger sister of former child actor Seth Mumy. She graduated from Laurel Hall School in North Hollywood, California and attended Campbell Hall School. She left there and graduated from Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California in 2012.
Liliana appeared with her father, Bill Mumy, in the Twilight Zone revival series' episode "It's Still a Good Life".

Career
Mumy has appeared in several motion pictures. Her most notable film appearances are in Cheaper by the Dozen, Cheaper by the Dozen 2, The Santa Clause 2, as well as The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause. In 2002, Mumy played Audrey Fremont, the daughter of her father Bill's character Anthony, in a sequel to the classic The Twilight Zone episode "It's a Good Life" called "It's Still a Good Life".
Mumy provided the voice of Mertle Edmonds (Lilo Pelekai's rival) in Stitch! The Movie, Lilo & Stitch: The Series, Lilo & Stitch 2: Stitch Has a Glitch, and Leroy & Stitch, and voicing a character with a smaller role on American Dragon: Jake Long as Haley's rival at school. She is also the voice of Twinkle on Higglytown Heroes and the voice of Human Kimberly on Nickelodeon's Catscratch. Lesser roles included TV appearances playing Rachael/Rachel in six episodes on My Wife and Kids from 2002 to 2004 as well as young Donna on That '70s Show and guest starring in Scrubs as a girl at her birthday party (whose face J.D. daydreams of shoving into her cake). She also voiced Panini in the cartoon Chowder, airing on Cartoon Network and played Lula in The Cleaner in 2008. She also voiced a feisty, fashionable, pink-loving, golden retriever puppy named Rosebud in the Disney movies Snow Buddies, Space Buddies, and Santa Buddies. In June 2012, Mumy started voice work as 'Beth' in Bravest Warriors, an animated series created by Pendleton Ward, produced by Frederator Studios for their channel, Cartoon Hangover, a premium content partner of YouTube. Mumy also provided the voice of Roxy on Nickelodeon's Winx Club and Leni Loud on Nickelodeon's The Loud House.

Filmography
Television
Films
Passage 10:
Lina Medina
Lina Marcela Medina de Jurado (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈlina meˈðina]; born 23 September 1933) is a Peruvian woman who became the youngest confirmed mother in history when she gave birth on 14 May 1939, aged five years, seven months, and 21 days. Based on the medical assessments of her pregnancy, she was less than five years old when she became pregnant, which was possibly due to precocious puberty.

Early life and development
Lina Medina was born in 1933 in Ticrapo, Castrovirreyna Province, Peru, to parents Tiburelo Medina, a silversmith, and Victoria Losea. She was one of nine children.Her parents took her to a hospital in Pisco at age five due to increasing abdominal size. Doctors originally thought she had a tumor but then determined that she was in her seventh month of pregnancy. Dr Gerardo Lozada had specialists in Lima confirm the pregnancy.There was widespread interest in the case. The San Antonio Light newspaper in Texas reported in its 16 July 1939 edition that a Peruvian obstetrician and midwife association had demanded she be admitted to a national maternity hospital, and quoted reports in the Peruvian paper La Crónica that an American film studio had sent a representative "with authority to offer the sum of $5,000 to benefit the minor" in return for filming rights, but "we know that the offer was rejected". The article noted that Lozada had made films of Medina for scientific documentation and had shown them while addressing Peru's National Academy of Medicine. Some of the films had fallen into a river on a visit to the girl's hometown, but enough remained to "intrigue the learned savants".Six weeks after the diagnosis,  on 14 May 1939, Medina gave birth to a boy by caesarean section. She was 5 years, 7 months, and 21 days old, the youngest person in history to give birth. The caesarean birth was necessitated by her small pelvis. The surgery was performed by Lozada and Dr Busalleu, with Dr Colareta providing anaesthesia. The doctors found she had fully mature sexual organs from precocious puberty. Dr. Edmundo Escomel reported her case in the medical journal La Presse Médicale, including that her menarche had occurred at eight months of age, in contrast to previous reports that she had had regular periods since the age of three or two and a half.Medina's son weighed 2.7 kg (6.0 lb; 0.43 st) at birth and was named Gerardo after her doctor. He was raised believing Medina to be his sister before finding out at age 10 that she was his mother. After initially remaining with the family, Lozada was allowed to take custody of the son at Lozada's home in Lima.  Subsequently, he employed Lina at his clinic in Lima (where she also resided), though Lina was only able to see her son occasionally.  Her son grew up healthy, but died in 1979 at the age of 40 from bone marrow disease.

Identity of the father
According to Peruvian law, the mere fact of Medina's pregnancy meant that she had been raped at some point before her fifth birthday. Medina has never revealed the identity of the father nor the circumstances of her impregnation. Escomel suggests that she might not know herself, as she "couldn't give precise responses". Lina's father was arrested on suspicion of child sexual abuse but released due to lack of evidence.

Later life
In young adulthood, Medina worked as a secretary in the Lima clinic of Lozada, which gave her an education and helped put her son through high school. She married and had a second son in 1972. In 2002, she refused an interview with Reuters, just as she had turned away many reporters in years past.

Documentation
Although it was speculated that the case was a hoax, a number of doctors over the years have verified it based on biopsies, X rays of the fetal skeleton in utero, and photographs taken by the doctors caring for her.There are two published photographs documenting the case. The first was taken around the beginning of April 1939, when Medina was seven and a half months into pregnancy. Taken from her left side, it shows her standing naked in front of a neutral backdrop. It is the only published photograph taken during her pregnancy. Hers is a rare, well-documented case of extreme precocious pregnancy in a child under six.

See also
Erramatti Mangamma
Passage 11:
Loekman Hakim
Loekman Hakim, stage name Loekman Noah (born December 30, 1975), is a guitar player for the popular Indonesian musical group Noah.

Career
Loekman joined Peterpan in 2000. At that time, the band had three members: Ariel, Uki, and Reza. Together with Peterpan, Loekman released six albums: Taman Langit, Bintang di Surga, Ost. Alexandria, Hari Yang Cerah, Sebuah Nama Sebuah Cerita and an instrumental album, Suara Lainnya. Peterpan was renamed Noah in August 2012 and continues to release new albums.During his career as guitarist in this band, Loekman has earning a nomination for Most Famous Guitarist Player in 2013 SCTV Music Awards.

Personal life
Loekman Hakim was born in Cianjur, West Java, Indonesia, on December 30, 1975, to Eman Sulaeman and Iis Martini. Loekman is the third child of five siblings. His father was a teacher at SMP 5 Bandung. Loekman married Rika Nurhayati and they have two children.

Filmography
Film
Book
Kisah Lainnya (2012)
6.903 mil – Cerita di Balik Konser 2 Benua 5 Negara (2013)

Awards and nominations
Passage 12:
Charles de Biencourt de Saint-Just
Baron Charles de Biencourt de Saint-Just (1591 or 1592, Champagne, France –  1623 or 1624, Port-Royal of what was then Acadia, New France). was a member of the French nobility and a military officer. He is best known as the successor to his father, Jean de Biencourt de Poutrincourt et de Saint-Just as commander of the settlement at Port-Royal and the King's Governor of Acadia from his father's death in 1615 until his own death. Because of his father's frequent trips to France, he had been previously acting in that capacity.
Poutrincourt oversaw Acadia under the authority of Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Mons until 1607 when he was notified that the King had rescinded de Mons' monopoly and that the Crown's contribution to the costs to maintain Port-Royal would not be continued.
Following the murder of King Henry IV and the ascension to the French throne by Louis XIII, under Marie de' Medici's regency, Biencourt and his father were authorized to return to Acadia. Their mandate required them to take along a Roman Catholic priest who would be responsible for the colony's welfare and for missionary work to convert the native peoples.
In 1611, Biencourt returned to France with a shipload of furs during which time the Crown appointed him Vice-Admiral of Acadia. Biencourt arranged financing for his colonial business ventures from two Huguenot businessmen from Dieppe but that was withdrawn when he was compelled by the King to take two Jesuit priests with him to Acadia to expand the Roman Catholic missionary work among the natives. New financing was arranged with the Jesuit Society becoming the partners of Jean de Poutrincourt and Thomas Robin de Coulogne, sharing in the profits from their colonial trading activities.

Conflicts with the Jesuits
Biencourt proved highly successful in his fur-trading ventures until 1618 when the industry went into decline. Port-Royal was gradually falling apart as a result of neglect and the lack of new immigrant settlers and it is thought that in the final few years before his death, Biencourt lived primarily with the natives.

Conflict with the English Capt. Samuel Argall


== References and notes ==
Passage 13:
Tom Hood
Tom Hood (19 January 1835 – 20 November 1874) was an English humorist, playwright and author. He was the son of the poet and author Thomas Hood. Pen and Pencil Pictures (1857) was the first of his illustrated books. His most successful novel was Captain Master's Children (1865).

Biography
Hood was born at Lake House, Leytonstone, England, the son of the poet Thomas Hood and his wife Jane (née Reynolds) (1791–1846). His older sister was the children's writer, Frances Freeling Broderip. After attending University College School and Louth Grammar School, he entered Pembroke College, Oxford, in 1853. There he studied for the Church and passed all the examinations for the degree of BA, but did not graduate.At Oxford, he wrote his Farewell to the Swallows (1853) and Pen and Pencil Pictures (1854). He began to write for the Liskeard Gazette in 1856, and edited that paper in 1858 and 1859. In 1861 he wrote Quips and Cranks, and Daughters of King Daher, and other Poems. The next year, he published Loves of Tom Tucker and Little Bo-Peep, a Rhyming Rigmarole, followed in 1864 by Vere Vereker's Vengeance, a Sensation, and in 1865 by Jingles and Jokes for the Little Folks. His novels included A Disputed Inheritance (1863), A Golden Heart (1867), The Lost Link (1868), Captain Masters's Children (1865), and Love and Valour (1872). In 1866 he translated Ernest L'Épine's La Légende de Croquemitaine.He also wrote two books on English verse composition, several children's books (in conjunction with his sister, Frances Freeling Broderip), and a body of magazine and journal articles. Hood drew with considerable facility, and illustrated several of his father's comic verses, some of which were collected in his father's book, Precocious Piggy.Meanwhile, in 1860, the younger Hood obtained a position in the War Office, which he served for five years. In 1865 he left the War Office when selected as editor of Fun Magazine, a Victorian weekly magazine which became very popular under his direction.  In 1867, he first issued Tom Hood's Comic Annual, not to be confused with the similarly-named Comic Annual that had been published in 1830 through 1842 by his father, the senior Thomas Hood (who, by then, had already died).
In private life, Hood's geniality and sincere friendliness secured him the affection and esteem of a wide circle of acquaintance. Some of these friends became contributors to his publications. For example, he befriended the dramatist W. S. Gilbert and the American journalist Ambrose Bierce, both frequent contributors to Fun. Hood wrote the burlesque, Robinson Crusoe; or, The Injun Bride and the Injured Wife (1867), together with Gilbert, H. J. Byron, H. S. Leigh and Arthur Sketchley. Hood's Fun gang also included playwright Thomas W. Robertson, among others.Hood's first wife, Susan, (on occasion called "Mrs Tom"), died in 1873, at the age of only thirty-seven. He married Justine Rudolphine Charotton (b. 1844/5) on 15 August 1874, only a few months before his own death.Hood died suddenly in his cottage at Peckham Rye, Surrey on 20 November 1874 and was buried in Nunhead cemetery.

Controversy over Alice in Wonderland
In 1887 the literary critic Edward Salmon suggested that Lewis Carroll had plagiarised Hood's From Nowhere to the North Pole (1875) when writing Alice:

Between Tom Hood and Mr. Lewis Carroll—to call Mr. D. C. Lutwidge by his famous nom de plume—there is more than a suspicion of resemblance in some particulars. Alice's Adventures in Wonderland narrowly escapes challenging a comparison with From Nowhere to the North Pole. The idea of both is so similar that Mr. Carroll can hardly have been surprised if some people have believed he was inspired by Hood.
Carroll replied a month later, in a terse letter to editor of The Nineteenth Century:

SIR, I find it stated, in an article on 'Literature for the Little Ones,' in your October number, that my little book, 'Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,' first published in 1865, was probably suggested by the late Mr. T. Hood's 'From Nowhere to the North Pole,' first published in 1864. May I mention, first, that I have never read Mr. Hood's book; secondly, that I composed mine in the summer of 1862, and wrote it out, in the form lately published in facsimile, during 1863? Thus it will be seen that neither book could have been suggested by the other.
As it is, in my view, and no doubt in that of many others of your readers, an act of dishonesty to imitate another man's book without due acknowledgment, I trust to your sense of justice to allow this reply to the charge brought against me in the above-named article to appear in your forthcoming number.
In 1889 Carroll even inserted an announcement in the back of The Nursery "Alice", correcting his previous explanation and further denying Tom Hood's influence:

In October 1887, the writer of an article on "Literature for the Little Ones": in The Nineteenth Century, stated that, in 1864 "TOM HOOD was delighting the world with such works as From Nowhere to the North Pole. Between TOM HOOD and Mr. LEWIS CARROLL there is more than a suspicion of resemblance in some particulars. Alice's Adventures in Wonderland narrowly escapes challenging a comparison with From Nowhere to the North Pole. The idea of both is so similar that Mr. Carroll can hardly have been surprised if some people have believed he was inspired by HOOD." The date 1864 is a mistake. From Nowhere to the North Pole was first published in 1874.

Legacy and honours
British dramatist Thomas W. Robertson dedicated his play Society (1864) to Hood — "To my dear friend Tom Hood this play is dedicated."
His sister, Frances Freeling Broderip, wrote a memoir of him that was published with an 1877 edition of his poems.
Ambrose Bierce's short story "The Damned Thing" was inspired by an alleged encounter with Tom Hood's spirit.
In 1925, Tom Hood School in Leytonstone was renamed after Hood.

Notes
Passage 14:
Vincent Perrot
Vincent Perrot (born 3 August 1965, in Confolens) is a French journalist, radio and television presenter and drag racing driver.

Biography
Perrot's father was the Mayor of the town and died when Vincent was 11. His mother Marina decided  to move the family to Limoges. As a child, Vincent Perrot used to listen to the radio France Bleu Limousin, in which a program about the cinema was broadcast. He wrote every week to the presenter to tell him that he did not agree with his point of view on the films he introduced. The presenter later invited him at his program and it was his beginning of his career at 17 on channel FR3.

Career
Perrot started being well known in the late 1980s when he replaced Jean Rochefort who presented Disney Channel on FR3 and then hosting summer afternoons the program 40° à l'ombre on the same channel. During the rest of the year, he presented a number of programs including On va gagner, Vincent à l'heure and Zapper n'est pas jouer. In 1989, still on FR3, he co-hosts the teenager program C'est pas juste.
During summer 1997, Perrot joined TF1 and presents the game show Mokshû Patamû, which had a moderate success. After that, it took him a few years to find again his success on television. He then presented in 2001 L'été des records on the same channel and Un contre tous (French version of the Belgian game show Septante et un) on France 3.
Perrot is one of the most famous radio presenters on RTL, in which he presents Vendredi c'est VIP and Le Cékoidon. He is also one of the most famous guests of the program Les Grosses Têtes hosted by Philippe Bouvard.
In 1998, Perrot became the fastest in the world accelerating with a speed of 402.8 km/h (251.8 mph) with a dragster. In September 2006, he made another record of 530.7 km/h (331.6 mph) in a stopped start. He is the founder of the Perrot Feeler Racing, dedicated to different categories of dragsters. He produces and presents in June 2009 the program Vincent Limites on channel Motors TV.
Since summer 2010, with the agreement and the collaboration of Jean-Paul Belmondo, Perrot co-produces the first official documentary about the life and career of the actor. The program had an excellent distribution due to the exceptional participation of Alain Delon, Jean Dujardin, Vanessa Paradis, Albert Dupontel, Vincent Cassel, Jean Rochefort, Jean-Pierre Marielle, Claude Lelouch, Claudia Cardinale, and even Zinedine Zidane. This documentary was broadcast on primetime on France 2 on May 17, 2011, and in the official selection of the 2011 Cannes Film Festival.