Passage 1:
Khrystyne Haje
Khrystyne Kamil Haje ( krist-EEN HOZH; born December 21, 1968) is an American actress. She is known for her role as Simone Foster in the sitcom series Head of the Class. After the series ended in 1991, she continued acting in both television and films. Haje was named as one of the "50 Most Beautiful People" in People magazine's first edition of that list in 1990.

Career
Haje began her career at age 14 as a fashion model while attending North Hollywood High School. Her acting career started at 17 in the television movie Crime of Innocence.
After appearing in several other television roles, including an appearance in the movie Bates Motel, Haje landed the role of sensitive poet Simone Foster on Head of the Class. After the series ended in 1991, she continued acting in both television and films. She was named as one of the "50 Most Beautiful People" in People Magazine's first edition of that list in 1990.That same year, Haje won a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Special Class Program for hosting the special Spaceship Earth: Our Global Environment. In 1995, Haje voiced the character of Rebecca Fallbrook in an episode of Batman: The Animated Series.
In the late 1990s, she began working in theatre productions and appearing less in television productions.In 2001, People Magazine reported that Haje was "quarter owner of a Silicon Valley company" worth $500 million. Haje explained, "I was really lucky and made a smart move."

Personal life
Haje was born in Santa Clara, California and has four brothers. Her parents are of Lebanese and Czech origin. Haje is a founding board member of the Earth Communication Office (ECO), which helps to protect ecosystems.She appeared on the March 23, 2012 episode of the Rachael Ray Show to have her hair cut as part of National Donate Your Hair Day (April 27) for women with cancer.In 2015, Haje was diagnosed with stage IV breast cancer, three years after being successfully treated for invasive lobular breast cancer. Although doctors estimated she had only two years to live, a medical trial called the SM-88 treatment (consisting of daily pills and injections) was successful, leaving her with no evidence of cancer within two years. She said, "I'm so lucky....I found this treatment, and I responded to it. And I don't suffer."

Filmography
Film

Television

Awards and nominations
1992: Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Special Class Program; Spaceship Earth: Our Global Environment (shared with Kirk Bergstrom and Kit Thomas)
Young Artist Awards nominations:

1987: Exceptional Performance By a Young Actress in a New Television, Comedy or Drama Series, Head of the Class
1988: Exceptional Performance by a Young Actress in a Television Comedy Series, Head of the Class
1989: Best Young Actress – Starring in a Television Comedy Series, Head of the Class
Passage 2:
The Dinner Party (play)
The Dinner Party is a one-act comedy written by Neil Simon, about marriage and divorce. This is Simon's 31st play.

Production
The Dinner Party had its world premiere at the Mark Taper Forum, Los Angeles, in December 1999 and then ran at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, DC. in June and July 2000.The play opened on Broadway at the Music Box Theatre on October 19, 2000 and closed on September 1, 2001 after 364 performances and 20 previews. Directed by John Rando, the cast featured Len Cariou (Andre Bouville), Veanne Cox (Yvonne Fouchet), Penny Fuller (Gabrielle Buonocelli), Jan Maxwell (Mariette Levieux), John Ritter (Claude) and Henry Winkler (Albert).  The sets were by John Lee Beatty, costumes by Jane Greenwood and lighting by Brian MacDevitt.Near the end of the run, Ritter and Winkler were replaced by Jon Lovitz and Larry Miller.Fuller received a Tony nomination for Best Featured Actress in a Play.

Background
In an interview in The New York Times (as reported by talkinbroadway.com), Simon said that "he was trying to write a play very different from anything he had done before, and that he 'had the concept of creating a farce up to a certain point, and then instead of continuing the farce, to make a turn to where it becomes quite serious. [He] wanted to break the concept that farces can never get real, even for a minute.' "

Plot overview
Playwright Neil Simon, himself married five times, mines his own experience to create the thematic material for this unique farce-turned-dramedy.
Six unknowing guests have RSVP'd to a dinner at a private dining room in a first-rate restaurant in Paris. Arriving in a staggered manner, they eventually realize they are three divorced couples—providing the makings of the farce Simon intends the first half of the play to be. Five of them were mistaken into thinking a man they hold in high regard (who happens to be the divorce lawyer) is hosting the party, but he never shows up, and appearances prove to be deceiving.
Claude Pichon and Albert Donay are the first to arrive, and Claude asks what the party is for, but Albert does not know either. As the three male guests arrive first and the female guests later, it only gradually unfolds that they are three divorced couples and that somebody has designs for them to be together.
After the shock wears off, the characters inevitably begin to analyze and emotionally process their past marriages, and the play ends on a hopeful note.
The play treats similar themes to Stephen Sondheim's Follies, but has a generally more upbeat ending and a more positive spin on breakups and the meaning of relationships.

Reception
Ben Brantley in his New York Times review wrote: "The Dinner Party obviously hopes to invert a traditional comic form to reveal the truly absurd messes that so many people make of their marriages. Mr. Simon, who has been married five times, has reason to consider this subject. But no matter how profound his intentions, the play keeps shifting into automatic pilot, reflexively delivering barbs that glide over the surface instead of piercing it. The Dinner Party concludes on a tender, truly stirring note of pathos, bewilderment and affection for the foolish mortals who create such havoc for themselves. This sentimental moment is so palpably sincere, you wish you had been able to believe for a single instant in the events leading up to it."
Passage 3:
Love, Simon
Love, Simon is a 2018 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Greg Berlanti, written by Isaac Aptaker and Elizabeth Berger, and based on the novel Simon vs. the Homo Sapiens Agenda by Becky Albertalli. The film stars Nick Robinson, Josh Duhamel, and Jennifer Garner. It centers on Simon Spier, a closeted gay high school boy who struggles to balance his friends, his family, and the blackmailer threatening to out him to the entire school, while simultaneously attempting to discover the identity of the anonymous classmate with whom he has fallen in love online.
Love, Simon premiered at the Mardi Gras Film Festival on February 27, 2018, and was released in the United States on March 16, 2018, by 20th Century Fox. Critics praised the film for its "big heart, diverse and talented cast, and revolutionary normalcy", describing it as "tender, sweet, and affecting" and a "hugely charming crowd-pleaser" that is "funny, warm-hearted and life-affirming", with reviews comparing it to the romantic comedy-drama films of John Hughes. Notable as the first film by a major Hollywood studio to focus on a gay teenage romance, it grossed $66 million worldwide. A television series titled Love, Victor, set in the same universe as the film, premiered on June 17, 2020, on Hulu, with Robinson serving as the series' narrator for the first season.

Plot
Simon Spier is a closeted gay teenager living in a suburb of Atlanta, Georgia. He has a close and loving family—parents Emily and Jack, and sister Nora—as well as three best friends: Nick and Leah, whom he has known most of his life, and newcomer Abby.
Leah informs Simon about an online confession of a closeted gay student at their high school, known only by the pseudonym "Blue". Simon begins communicating with Blue via email using the pseudonym "Jacques". The two confide personal details and form a connection. Their emails are accidentally discovered by another student, Martin, who is infatuated with Abby. After learning his secret, Martin threatens to make Simon's emails public unless he helps Martin win over Abby. Simon begins trying to figure out which of his classmates is actually Blue.
At a Halloween party, Simon suspects his classmate Bram might be Blue and attempts to connect with him, but later walks in on Bram making out with a female student. Nick confides in Simon that he has feelings for Abby. Simon lies to Nick, telling him that Abby has a boyfriend in college. Leah walks an inebriated Simon home, where she speaks vaguely about how she feels that she is fated to love one person very intensely; Simon believes she is referring to Nick.
Simon meets up with Abby and Martin at a Waffle House after he convinces them to practice lines together for an upcoming school musical. Simon bonds with their server, a classmate named Lyle, and now suspects that Lyle may be Blue. That night, Simon comes out to Abby and is relieved when she reacts positively.
At a school football game, Simon crosses paths with Lyle; before he can summon the courage to ask if Lyle is Blue, he finds out Lyle is actually interested in Abby. An upset Simon tells a pestering Martin to either "go big or go home" when courting Abby. Martin interrupts the national anthem and publicly declares his feelings for Abby. When Abby admits she does not share those feelings, Martin is humiliated and becomes the subject of ridicule.
On Christmas Eve, to distract people from his own humiliation, Martin outs Simon by posting his emails on the school's gossip site. Simon's sister, Nora, tries to comfort Simon but he shuts her out and does not return his friends' texts and calls. Simon comes out to his parents on Christmas morning, to their surprise and acceptance.
After the holidays, Nick and Abby, now a couple, confront Simon about the lies he told and learn that he tried to keep them apart due to Martin's blackmail. Leah confesses to Simon that she was in love with him, not Nick, and is upset he came out to Abby first. After his friends break off from him, Simon receives a final email from Blue, who is upset that their emails have been leaked. Blue tells Simon that they should stop speaking and deletes his email account.
In the cafeteria, Simon and an openly gay student, Ethan, are mocked by classmates. Ethan and Simon bond over the difficulties they have faced coming out. After his mother reaches out and comforts him, Simon apologizes to Leah and tells her he is in love with Blue. Simon posts a confession on the gossip site apologizing to his friends, seeking out Blue and asking him to meet at the school carnival.
After the school musical, Leah, Nick and Abby make amends with Simon and invite him to go to the carnival with them. Waiting for Blue at the carnival, Simon rides the Ferris wheel, drawing a large crowd of peers. When Simon runs out of tickets, Martin buys him one more ride. Just before the ride begins, Bram sits next to Simon, revealing himself as Blue after all; the kiss Simon saw with the female student was a drunken misunderstanding. They ride the Ferris wheel together and kiss as their friends cheer them on.
Simon's life gradually returns to normal and he begins a relationship with Bram. While picking up his friends and boyfriend for school, Simon suggests that they forgo their usual morning routine and instead go "on a little adventure".

Cast
Nick Robinson as Simon Spier
Bryson Pitts as 10-year-old Simon Spier
Nye Reynolds as 5-year-old Simon Spier
Josh Duhamel as Jack Spier, Simon's father
Jennifer Garner as Emily Spier, Simon's mother
Katherine Langford as Leah Burke, one of Simon's best friends
Alexandra Shipp as Abby Susso, one of Simon's best friends
Jorge Lendeborg Jr. as Nick Eisner, one of Simon's best friends
Keiynan Lonsdale as Abraham "Bram" Greenfeld, Simon's love interest
Miles Heizer as Cal Price, one of Simon's classmates
Logan Miller as Martin Addison, one of Simon's classmates who blackmails him
Tony Hale as Mr. Worth, the awkward vice principal of the school Simon attends
Talitha Bateman as Nora Spier, Simon's sister
Skye Mowbray as 6-year-old Nora Spier
Natasha Rothwell as Ms. Albright, Simon's drama teacher
Drew Starkey as Garrett Laughlin, one of Simon's classmates
Clark Moore as Ethan, one of Simon's classmates who is openly gay
Joey Pollari as Lyle, a flirty server at a local diner
Mackenzie Lintz as Taylor Metternich, one of Simon's classmates

Production
Principal photography began on March 6, 2017, in Atlanta, Georgia. Filming officially ended on April 23, 2017, two days earlier than scheduled, an effort that Berlanti made to offset the cost of paying royalties for the most expensive songs on the film's soundtrack.Becky Albertalli, the author of the novel the film is based on, and YouTuber Doug Armstrong make cameo appearances as students in the film.

Music
Love, Simon (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) was released by RCA Records and Sony Music Entertainment, on March 16, 2018. It featured music by several artists including Bleachers, Troye Sivan, Amy Shark, Brenton Wood, The 1975, Normani and Khalid, among others. It featured at #37 on Billboard 200's chart, #3 on Billboard Top Soundtracks chart, and at #24 in Billboard Canadian Albums chart for the week beginning with March 31, 2018, while also featured at #161 on Billboard 200 year-ender chart.Rob Simonsen's score was distributed by Lakeshore Records as Love, Simon (Original Motion Picture Score) and released along with the soundtrack album.

Release
Love, Simon premiered at the Mardi Gras Film Festival on February 27, 2018, and also screened at the Glasgow Film Festival and the Melbourne Queer Film Festival. The film was released by 20th Century Fox in the United States and Canada on March 16, 2018, and was scheduled to be released in other countries on various dates throughout 2018.Following the film's release, several celebrities – including Jennifer Garner, Kristen Bell, Neil Patrick Harris, Joey Graceffa, Matt Bomer, Robbie Rogers, Benj Pasek, Tyler Oakley, Martin Gero, Andrew Rannells, and Jesse Tyler Ferguson – bought out theaters and offered free screenings of the film because they believed it conveyed an important message. Love, Simon is notable as the first film by a major Hollywood studio to focus on a gay teenage romance.The film became available to pre-order on home video on January 17, 2018, was released digitally on May 29, 2018, and was released on 4K Blu-Ray, Blu-ray and DVD on June 12, 2018.

Reception
Box office
Love, Simon grossed $40.8 million in the United States and Canada, and $25.4 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $66.3 million, against a production budget of $10–17 million. It is the 15th highest-grossing teen romance film since 1980, and the third-highest by 20th Century Fox after The Fault in Our Stars and Romeo + Juliet.Love, Simon held early preview screenings on March 10 before its official release on March 16, where it grossed $800,000 from 927 theaters, which Deadline Hollywood considered "strong". In the United States and Canada, the film was released alongside Tomb Raider and I Can Only Imagine, and was projected to gross $10–12 million from 2,401 theaters in its opening weekend. The film made $4.6 million on its first day (including $850,000 from Thursday previews at 2,125 theaters). The film went on to debut at $11.8 million, finishing fifth at the box office; 58% of its opening weekend audience was female and 59% was under 25. In its second weekend the film dropped 33% to $7.8 million, finishing 7th, and in its third weekend made $4.8 million, finishing ninth.In the United Kingdom, the film debuted fourth at the box office, earning $1.6 million. In Australia, the film debuted fourth at the box office, earning $916,697. In Brazil, the film debuted fourth at the box office, earning $804,567. In Mexico, the film debuted third at the box office, earning $982,391.

Critical response
On review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 92% based on 239 reviews, with an average rating of 7.5/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "Love, Simon hits its coming-of-age beats more deftly than many entries in this well-traveled genre – and represents an overdue, if not entirely successful, milestone of inclusion." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 72 out of 100, based on 38 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A+" on an A+ to F scale, one of fewer than 90 films in the history of the service to earn such a score.Benjamin Lee of The Guardian gave the film four out of five stars, calling it a "hugely charming crowd-pleaser". Pete Hammond of Deadline Hollywood gave the film four out of five stars, stating that audiences "are guaranteed to fall in love with this sweet, funny coming-of-age film".Molly Freeman of Screen Rant gave the film four out of five stars or an Excellent rating, stating that "Love, Simon is a funny, heartfelt, and truly touching teen romantic comedy that instantly becomes a modern classic for today's generation." Josh Winning of GamesRadar+ gave the film four out five stars, describing it as a "warm, sensitive and engaging coming-out-of-ager" and "one of the freshest teen-coms in ages".Meredith Goldstein of The Boston Globe gave the film three and a half out of four stars and stated, "Love, Simon is a sweet, modern romantic comedy that manages to channel the teen movie classics of the late John Hughes, but only the good stuff." Colin Covert of the Star Tribune gave the film 3/4 stars and wrote, "If John Hughes had gone on to make a smart LGBT coming-of-age charmer, most likely it would resemble this."Bruce Demara of the Toronto Star also gave it three out of four stars, stating "The casting is high quality, the script – with a tantalizing mystery at its heart – is particularly well-crafted and the story hits all the right emotional notes in delivering a funny, warm-hearted and life-affirming tale." Brian Truitt of USA Today gave the film three and a half out of four stars and wrote, "Young and old, jocks and nerds, geeks and freaks, and everyone in between should be able to find something to adore in Love, Simon."Joyce Slaton of Common Sense Media gave the film four out of five stars, describing it as "tender, sweet, and affecting", with the film also receiving The Common Sense Seal, which recognizes movies that offer families an exceptional media experience. MJ Franklin of Mashable wrote that "Love, Simon feels like an instant classic that you're going to want to watch again and again."Max Weiss of Baltimore gave Love, Simon three out of four stars, calling it a "sweet, funny, warm-hearted film".Peter Debruge of Variety, while stating that the film is average in execution, praised the content as "groundbreaking on so many levels, not least of which is just how otherwise familiar it all seems". Jesse Hassenger of The A.V. Club gave the film a C+ and wrote that the film "is touching as a gesture", but as entertainment "it's nothing Degrassi hasn't done better".Becky Albertalli, the author of the novel on which the film is based, watched an early cut and praised the film, stating: "It's funny and relevant and timeless and charming and honest and painful and so romantic. It says exactly what I wanted the book to say."

Accolades
Sequel television series
Although Berlanti indicated that, after witnessing the film's success, he would not necessarily be opposed to directing a sequel film based on the book's spin-off sequel, Leah on the Offbeat, stating "God willing that the movie is successful enough that people actually ask for something like that. I loved working with these people on this film so much. I would just like to spend more time with them, that would be good!" When asked about a sequel, Katherine Langford said "I mean, it's always a discussion of who would make it, but if the script was good and the filmmaker had a great vision, then I would be totally down. I'm always down to tell a good story."On April 11, 2019, it was announced that a spin-off television series would premiere on Disney+. The series is not an adaptation of Leah on the Offbeat but rather a new story set at the same high school and follows closeted basketball player Victor and his already out-of-the-closet hipster crush, Benji.On June 13, 2019, actress Ana Ortiz was cast to star as Isabel, Victor's mother. On August 15, 2019, the rest of the cast was revealed, with Michael Cimino leading the series as Victor, James Martinez as Victor's father Armando, Isabella Ferreira as Victor's sister Pilar, Mateo Fernandez as Victor's brother Adrian, Rachel Naomi Hilson as Victor's friend Mia, Bebe Wood as Mia's friend Lake, George Sear as Victor's love interest Benji, Anthony Turpel as Victor's best friend Felix, and Mason Gooding as cocky jock Andrew. Additionally, Nick Robinson would return as narrator and a producer of the series.In February 2020, the series – now titled Love, Victor – was announced to be premiering on Hulu instead in June 2020. It was released on Disney+ in February 2021 in territories where the Star content hub is available.
Passage 4:
Bruce Davis (video game industry)
Bruce L. Davis (born 1952) is an American businessman, most recently CEO and chairman of Digimarc. Formerly the head of both Imagic and Activision.

Early life and education
A native of New York, Davis earned a B.S. in accounting and psychology and an M.A. in criminal justice from University at Albany, SUNY, and a J.D. degree from Columbia University.

Career
Davis began his professional career by establishing the intellectual property practice at the firm of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe in San Francisco, California. He assumed leadership of Imagic as it was going out of business in the video game crash of 1983.From 1987 to 1991, Davis was first chief operating officer, then chairman and CEO of Activision. The board of directors promoted him from senior vice president to replace Jim Levy shortly after the acquisition of Infocom, in the hopes of stemming the continuing financial damage from the crash. He had opposed the merger, and many Infocom employees believed he was deliberately working against them, changing processes that had made the game business successful. Activision co-founder and programmer David Crane was also critical of Davis: "Bruce Davis’ biggest mistake was treating video games as commodities, rather than creative products." Nevertheless, Davis's leadership of Activision began well. He led the company to a profit in his first year at the helm on strong sales growth, following 16 consecutive quarters of multimillion-dollar losses. The turnaround effort was stymied after a huge damages award for infringement of Magnavox's original home video game patents was upheld on appeal in 1988. That year Activision changed its name to Mediagenic, as Davis sought to expand the company's product lines to non-gaming software. In February 1991, Robert Kotick, backed by Steve Wynn of Mirage Resorts, staged a successful hostile takeover. Kotick and his team then filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy in cooperation with Magnavox parent company Philips in a leveraged recapitalization of Activision, as it was renamed in 1992. Kotick replaced Davis in this restructuring.Starting in 1992, Davis founded and served as president of TV Guide on Screen, a joint venture of News Corporation and TCI that supplied electronic guides and navigational software for the cable television market. The company later merged with Prevue Networks, then with TV Guide. TV Guide later merged with Gemstar International. The resulting Gemstar-TV Guide International was acquired in 2008 by Macrovision. 
Davis was the chairman and CEO of Digimarc until 2021. He led Digimarc from start up in 1997 to a more than US$100 million public company supplying digital watermarking technologies to national and state governments and to the media industry. In April 2021, Davis retired from his role as chairman and CEO of Digimarc.Davis has been awarded more than 50 patents on television user interface and media management and security. In 2003, Davis was named Ernst & Young's Pacific Northwest Entrepreneur Of The Year for the technology category.
Passage 5:
Empire Interactive
Empire Interactive was a British video game developer and publisher based in London. Founded in 1987 by Ian Higgins and Simon Jeffrey, it was acquired by Silverstar Holdings in 2006 and went out of business in 2009.

History
Empire Interactive was established by Ian Higgins (chief executive officer) and Simon Jeffrey (managing director) in 1987. In November 2000, the company acquired development studio Razorworks.As well as full priced titles, Empire also had a budget range of titles, Xplosiv, for PC and PS2. Initially launched for PC in January 2000, Xplosiv published titles in Europe from third parties such as Sega and Microsoft. Later, in 2003 Empire launched titles for PS2.In March 2002 Empire acquired music creation software eJay.Silverstar Holdings, a U.S. public company listed on NASDAQ, offered to acquired Empire Interactive in late October 2006. The deal was accepted by 90% of Empire Interactive's shareholders by late November, and so Silverstar Holdings acquired 85% of Empire Interactive's shares. The deal was valued at approximately £4.5 million. Admissions of further Empire Interactive shares on the Alternative Investments Market of the London Stock Exchange, were expected to be cancelled, effective on 20 December. Higgins stepped down from his position in May 2008. In July, Empire Interactive reduced its staff count by 30%, with the intent to sell Razorworks. Razorworks was sold to and absorbed by Rebellion Developments a few days later. After Silverstar Holdings was delisted from NASDAQ in March 2009, Empire Interactive was placed into administration on 1 May 2009, with KPMG Restructuring appointed as administrator. Subsequently, 49 out of 55 employees were laid off, with the remaining six staying to aiding KPMG Restructuring in the winding-down of the company. Empire Interactive's intellectual property was sold to U.S.-based company New World IP. Shortly thereafter, U.S. publisher Zoo Publishing acquired an exclusive licence for the publishing and distribution of Empire Interactive from New World IP.

Games
Passage 6:
René Simon
René Simon (1898 in Troyes – 1971) was a French actor and founder in 1925 of the Cours Simon drama school in Paris. Notable alumni of Cours Simon include Benoît Petitjean and Jean Reno.
Passage 7:
Director of the National Security Agency
The director of the National Security Agency (DIRNSA) is the highest-ranking official of the National Security Agency, which is a defense agency within the U.S. Department of Defense. The director of the NSA also concurrently serves as the Chief of the Central Security Service (CHCSS) and as the commander of U.S. Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM). As the director of the NSA and the chief of the CSC, the officeholder reports to the under secretary of defense for intelligence, and as the commander of U.S. Cyber Command, the officeholder reports directly to the secretary of defense.
According to 10 U.S.C. § 201 of the United States Code, the director of the NSA is recommended by the secretary of defense and nominated for appointment by the president. The nominee must be confirmed via majority vote by the Senate. In accordance with Department of Defense Directive 5100.20, dated 23 December 1971, the director of the NSA must always be a commissioned officer of the military services. As the assignment is currently part of a tri-hatted position, the director of the NSA is appointed to the grade of a four-star general or admiral during the period of his incumbency. The director's deputy is always a technically experienced civilian.

AFSA directors
The Armed Forces Security Agency was the predecessor to the National Security Agency and existed from 1949 to 1952.

NSA directors
Passage 8:
Wishful Drinking
Wishful Drinking is an autobiographical humor book by American actress and author Carrie Fisher, published by Simon & Schuster in 2008. Fisher's book was based on her one-woman stage show, which she developed with writer/director Joshua Ravetch.
The show debuted at The Geffen Playhouse. Fisher performed with Ravetch co-creating and directing. It enjoyed a successful Broadway run and then toured in other cities. In 2010, HBO filmed a feature-length documentary of the stage play.

Book reception
Wishful Drinking received generally positive reviews from critics. The January 2009 New York Times review described it as a "funny, sardonic little memoir", but "pretty slight, padded out with big type, extra space between the lines and some family photographs, and it displays at times an almost antic need to entertain. The paragraphs are short, and the jokes – the puns, the wisecracks, the deadpan one-liners – come rattling along at the rate of one every other sentence or so."  Salon reviewer Rebecca Traister found the book quite funny in large part, but was disappointed that "instead of pushing aside the twinkling craziness of her outside life to meaningfully reveal the crazy on the inside, as she has always done so well, Fisher is now gathering all the starry stuff around her for comfort and reassurance about who she is and what she means."The author, who died on December 27, 2016, had written the following comment in the book, and it was widely published by the news media after her death:

Now I think that this would make for a fantastic obit—so I tell my younger friends that no matter how I go, I want it reported that I drowned in moonlight, strangled by my own bra.

Stage adaptation
The book followed Fisher's one-woman play in which Fisher had been performing. Developed originally at The Geffen Playhouse with Josh Ravetch co-creating and directing the world premiere, it moved to Berkeley Repertory Theatre near San Francisco at the beginning of 2008, the production opened in a limited run on Broadway at Studio 54 on September 22, 2009 (previews) and October 4, 2009, and closed on January 17, 2010. After its successful San Francisco Bay Area run and before moving to Broadway, Wishful Drinking played at, among other venues, the Arena Stage in Washington, D.C. in September 2008, and Seattle Repertory Theatre April – May 2009.

Production rights dispute
While the show met with critical and popular success on Broadway in New York, Fisher was soon embroiled in a battle with producer Jonathan Reinis over its production rights. Each claimed lost revenue at the hands of the other.

Film documentary
HBO cable television released a filmed documentary of the stage show, directed by Fenton Bailey and Randy Barbato, and first broadcast in December 2010. The 76-minute film was released on DVD on September 13, 2011.  The film production and DVD received a mixture of reviews.  In the Los Angeles Times, Robert Lloyd described the performance captured: "Fisher can be broad, but that is also the person she plays everywhere now: a little larger than life, worn but not worn out. She's funny as an actress, and as a writer makes memorable phrases".  Boston Globe reviewer Matthew Gilbert wrote, "Fisher’s obsession with her parents and stepparents can be a little tiresome, to be honest, even while her tales of Hollywood absurdity remain outrageous ... Fisher even starts to seem boastful about her dysfunction ..."  Continuing, "Fortunately Fisher does have some self-awareness about the potential for her show to seem like a narcissistic screed. That helps." DVDTalk reviewer Jason Bailey wrote of the released DVD, "To put across the brilliance of Wishful Drinking, all Bailey and Barbato really needed to do was put Fisher on stage, and turn on the cameras. They do that skillfully and unobtrusively". The DVD's content received 4/5 stars, video quality 3/5, audio quality 3.5/5, extras 2.5/5, replay 4/5, with final advice of "Highly Recommended".
Passage 9:
Striking Out
Striking Out is an Irish television legal drama series, broadcast on RTÉ, that first aired on 1 January 2017. Produced by Bl!nder F!lms for RTÉ Television, Striking Out stars Amy Huberman as Dublin-based solicitor Tara Rafferty, who is currently working for a fledgling legal firm. Filmed in Dublin and Wicklow, the first series, comprising four episodes, was broadcast during January 2017, to critical acclaim. Subsequently, the series was sold to the United States, where it made its North American debut on Acorn TV on 17 March 2017. Internationally, the series has been distributed by DCD Rights and Acorn Media Enterprises.The series drew the highest Sunday night ratings for RTÉ in over a year. Prior to the broadcast of the first episode, RTÉ's Head of Drama Jane Gogan confirmed to the Irish Examiner that a second series was already in development. Subsequently, a second series was officially confirmed by RTÉ, with filming taking place throughout the summer of 2017. The second series, extended to six episodes, commenced broadcasting in 2018, with Maria Doyle Kennedy, Moe Dunford and Jane Brennan amongst the new cast members. Simon Massey will also act as the director. In 2018, Channel 5 Broadcasting Ltd acquired the rights to air the series in the United Kingdom, with the first series airing on the newly launched 5Select from 13 February 2018.
There are currently no plans to develop a third season of the drama, despite the 'cliff hanger' ending of season 2.

Synopsis
Striking Out follows the professional and personal life of Dublin-based solicitor, Tara Rafferty.

Cast
Main cast
Amy Huberman as Tara Rafferty; a Dublin-based solicitor
Neil Morrissey as Vincent Pike; SC and close friend of Tara's
Rory Keenan as Eric Dunbar; Tara's cheating ex-fiancé and former colleague
Fiona O'Shaughnessy as Meg Reilly; a private investigator and tech guru
Emmet Byrne as Ray Lamont; a petty criminal represented by Tara whom she later employs
Maria Doyle Kennedy as George Cusack; Tara's new office partner (Series 2—)
Moe Dunford as Sam Dunbar; Eric's younger brother (Series 2—)
Paul Antony-Barber as Richard Dunbar; senior partner in the law firm and Eric's father
Nick Dunning as Conrad Rafferty; Tara's father, who works as a barrister
Ingrid Craigie as Irene Rafferty; Tara's mother and former legal secretary
Brahm Gallagher as Pete; a local cafe owner who allows Tara to set up her fledgling firm in his back office (Series 1 — Series 2, Episode 1)

Recurring cast
Conall Keating as Steve; Ray's partner
Kate Gilmore as Lucy Whelan; receptionist at Dunbar's
Sam McGovern as "Bookworm" Joe; a junior counsel
Natalie Radmall-Quirke as Caroline Walsh; an employee at Dunbar's
Elva Trill as Gillian; an employee at Dunbar's
Susannah De Wrixon as Joan Dunbar; Eric's mother
Enda Oates as Phillip McGrath (Series 2—)
Michael James Ford as Nigel Fitzjames (Series 2—)
Jane Brennan as Deidre York (Series 2—)

Episodes
Series 1 (2017)
Series 2 (2018)
Passage 10:
The Odd Couple (1970 TV series)
The Odd Couple (titled onscreen Neil Simon's The Odd Couple) is an American sitcom television series broadcast from September 24, 1970 to March 7, 1975 on ABC. The show, which stars Tony Randall as Felix Unger and Jack Klugman as Oscar Madison, was the first of several sitcoms developed by Garry Marshall for Paramount Television. The series is based on the 1965 play The Odd Couple written by Neil Simon, which was also adapted into the 1968 film The Odd Couple. The story examines two divorced men, Oscar and Felix, who share a Manhattan apartment and whose opposite personalities inevitably lead to conflict and laughter.
In 1997, the episodes "Password" and "The Fat Farm" were ranked No. 5 and No. 58, respectively, on TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time. The show received three nominations for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series.

History
The success of the 1968 film version of the stage play of The Odd Couple, which starred Jack Lemmon as Felix and Walter Matthau as Oscar, catalyzed production of the television show. Mickey Rooney and Martin Balsam were also considered for the part of Oscar and Dean Martin and Art Carney for Felix (Carney had originated the role on Broadway).
Eventually Tony Randall (as Felix) and Jack Klugman (as Oscar) were hired; Klugman had replaced Walter Matthau as Oscar in the original Broadway production, and Randall had also appeared as Felix in other productions of the play. Randall, who was hired first, had still wanted Mickey Rooney to play Oscar. Co-executive producer Garry Marshall had to lobby hard to get Klugman successfully hired. Once the casting was in place, the show's writers (Marshall, Jerry Belson, Jerry Paris, Bob Brunner, Mark Rothman and Lowell Ganz, among others) came up with a multitude of situations for Felix and Oscar to be in, while staying true to the soul of the play, which always reverted to the human tensions between the two that created the comic situations.
The show premiered on ABC on September 24, 1970. The first season was filmed at Paramount studios using the single-camera method and a laugh track, utilizing the same apartment set seen in Paramount's 1968 film version. Klugman and Randall both expressed displeasure with using a laugh track without a live audience. Marshall also disliked the practice; theatre veteran Randall particularly resented the process of having to wait several seconds between punchlines in order to allot enough space for the laughter to be inserted. The production team eventually experimented with omitting the laugh track altogether for Season One's 21st episode, "Oscar's New Life" (laughter was subsequently added for syndication in order to maintain continuity). By the second season, ABC relented, and the show was then filmed with three cameras and performed like a stage play in front of a live studio audience, with laugh sweetening completed during post-production.
The change also required construction of a new, larger apartment set with a new layout, within a theatre at Paramount.Randall and Klugman both enjoyed the spontaneity that came with performing in front of a live audience; any missed or blown lines usually went by without stopping (they would be reshot during post-production). In addition, it gave the show a certain edge that had been lost during the first season, although the actors had to deliver lines more loudly, since they were on a larger sound stage, as opposed to a quiet studio with only minimal crew present.Klugman later recalled, "We spent three days rehearsing the show. We sat around a table the first day. We tore the script apart. We took out all the jokes and put in character. The only reason we leave in any jokes is for the rotten canned laughter. I hated it. I watch the shows at home, I see Oscar come in and he says, 'Hi,' and there is the laughter. 'Hey,' I think, 'what the hell did I do?' I hate it; it insults the audience."Throughout its five years on ABC, The Odd Couple was juggled several times around the network's programming schedule, never reaching the Top 30 in the Nielsen ratings. However, ABC continually renewed the show because the ratings for the summer reruns were consistently high.
In the final first-run episode, "Felix Remarries", Felix finally wins his ex-wife Gloria back and they remarry, as Oscar regains the freedom of living alone again. The final scene unfolds in this way, as the two say their goodbyes:

Felix: Your dinner's in the oven; turn it off in 20 minutes. [pause] Oscar … what can I say? Five years ago you took me in: a broken man on the verge of … mental collapse. I leave here a cured human being. I owe it all to you. [gesturing toward apartment] It's all yours buddy. I salute you. [empties waste basket onto floor]
Oscar: Felix, you know how I'm gonna salute you? I'm gonna clean that up.
Felix: It has not been in vain.
[They shake hands and Felix exits stage left through front door. After door closes …]
Oscar: [swings his hand through the air] I'm not gonna clean that up. [exits stage right to bedroom to audience laughter]
[Felix sneaks back in stage left and looks at floor]
Felix: [disgustedly] I knew he wouldn't clean it up! [proceeds to pick up trash to audience applause] (fade out)The 114 episodes went on to syndication and home video.

Differences between the series and the play/film
In the TV series, Felix's last name was spelled Unger but in the play and film it is spelled Ungar.
In the stage play, Felix is a news writer for CBS (in the film he writes the news for "television"), while in the TV series he is a commercial photographer. (His slogan, which he is quick to vocalize, is "Portraits a specialty".)
Felix's wife is named Frances in the play and in the film, but is Gloria in the TV series.
In the play and the film, Oscar has at least two children (including a son "Brucey"), who are referred to but not seen. In the series, Oscar is childless. In the play and the film, Felix has a son and a younger daughter. In the series, the children's birth order is reversed, and they are named Leonard and Edna, after Tony Randall's middle name and the name of his sister.
In the series, Felix is portrayed as being rather highbrow with refined tastes in food, music and the arts in general; he is baffled by much of popular culture. In the play/film, Felix is much more of a “regular guy”: He ogles go-go dancers,   plays poker, goes bowling and shoots pool. Though the pre-TV Felix enjoys cooking and prepares well-crafted sandwiches for his friends, he mentions on different occasions preparing rather simple dinners like meatloaf, franks and beans and cole slaw. When the dinner he has prepared for the Pigeon Sisters  burns (meatloaf in the film, London Broil in the play), he suggests substituting corned beef sandwiches from the local delicatessen.

Supporting characters
The Pigeon Sisters (Monica Evans as Cecily and Carole Shelley as Gwendolyn, reprising their roles from the Broadway stage play and film) made four appearances during the first season. The sisters were never seen after that, but were occasionally mentioned later on. Oscar gained a steady girlfriend during that latter part of the first season and half of the second, Dr. Nancy Cunningham (portrayed by Joan Hotchkis), an attractive physician, whose colleague, Dr. Melnitz (played by Bill Quinn in several episodes), is a curmudgeonly and sardonic older doctor who treats both Felix and Oscar. Felix also gained a girlfriend in the third season, Miriam Welby (portrayed by Elinor Donahue), and they lasted into the fifth season, presumably breaking up before Felix and Gloria remarry in the series finale. Christopher Shea appeared in three episodes of the first season as Philip, Felix and Oscar's precocious 11-year-old neighbor. Oscar makes frequent references to "Crazy Rhoda Zimmerman", his occasional good-time girlfriend, but she never appears onscreen.
The TV show also featured their ex-wives. Janis Hansen appeared as Felix's former wife Gloria (named Frances in the play and film), and Jack Klugman's real-life wife Brett Somers portrayed Blanche, Oscar's acerbic ex-wife (The couple separated in real life during the final season of the series). There were several episodes in which Felix felt he had not tried hard enough to reconcile with Gloria, and took comically drastic measures to try to win her back. In contrast, Oscar seemed quite happy to be divorced from Blanche, and she from him, as the two constantly traded sarcastic barbs. The only major drawback from Oscar's point of view was the alimony he was ordered to pay. Willie Aames and later Leif Garrett made a few appearances as Felix's son, Leonard. Pamelyn Ferdin and later Doney Oatman appeared as Felix's teenaged daughter, Edna.
The two other major supporting characters, Officer Murray Greshler and Myrna Turner, Oscar's secretary, were portrayed by Al Molinaro and Penny Marshall (Garry's sister) respectively. Alice Ghostley played Murray's wife Mimi in one episode of the first season when Felix quickly outstays his welcome after he moves out of Oscar's apartment after a falling-out. Jane Dulo made one appearance as Mimi in the second season. The regular cast was rounded out by Garry Walberg, Larry Gelman and Ryan McDonald who portrayed Oscar's poker cronies Homer "Speed" Deegan, the bald, bespectacled Vincent "Vinnie" Barella and Roy, Oscar's accountant, respectively. Ryan McDonald left the show after the seventh of the first season's eight episodes in which there was a poker game, and the character of Roy was mentioned occasionally after that, but never seen again.
Garry Walberg (who later appeared with his friend Klugman on the 1976-83 series Quincy M.E.) as "Speed", and Larry Gelman as Vinnie, both made several scattered guest appearances after the first season. Character actor Richard Stahl was seen in nine episodes as, among other things, a florist, a pet-shop owner, a psychiatrist, a volunteer fireman and a non-denominational monk, never playing the same role twice. Veteran character actors Herbie Faye and Phil Leeds appeared on the series in different roles, five and three times respectively.   Oscar's mother appeared in two different episodes, played once by Elvia Allman, and once by Jane Dulo, both veteran actresses.  Character actor John Fiedler who portrayed Vinnie in the 1968 film version, made two guest appearances in different roles. Victor Buono guest-starred in two episodes, playing a different role in each. Veteran stand-up comedian Leonard Barr made appearances in five episodes.

Celebrity guest stars
As themselves
The show often had celebrity guest stars, who reflected the cultural leanings either of Oscar or Felix, either playing themselves or fictional characters.
Sportscaster Howard Cosell (2 episodes) and then ABC television producer Roone Arledge (1 episode) played themselves.
Pop singer Jaye P. Morgan played herself as one of Oscar's many girlfriends. Opera singers Martina Arroyo and Richard Fredricks appeared as themselves. Other celebrities appearing as themselves included Edward Villella, Monty Hall, Richard Dawson, Wolfman Jack, David Steinberg, Hugh Hefner, Rodney Allen Rippy, John Simon, Bubba Smith, Deacon Jones, John Barbour and Allen Ludden and Betty White (married in real life). In one episode, noted tennis frenemies and real-life competitors Bobby Riggs and Billie Jean King appeared as themselves.
Singer-songwriter Paul Williams appeared in an episode where Felix's daughter Edna runs away to follow Williams on tour. (Williams dissuades her.) Dick Clark made an appearance as himself, a radio disc jockey who calls Oscar in a contest, where he wins a new car (The New Car, episode 76). Neil Simon (the author of the play which the series is based upon) makes an uncredited cameo appearance during the fifth season in Two on the Aisle, as does Bob Hope in The Hollywood Story.

Fictional depictions
Marilyn Horne played Jackie Hartman, a shy but musically talented co-worker of Oscar's.
Roy Clark played "Wild" Willie Boggs, an old practical joke-playing friend of Oscar's, who nonetheless has enormous musical talent, impressing even Felix.
Jean Simmons played the visiting Princess Lydia from the fictional European country of Liechtenberg (Peggy Rea played her lady-in-waiting), who meets Felix in a photography session but goes out on a date with Oscar, and he comes home bragging of a wonderful time. He proudly relates that the Princess had a wonderful time also, and that "she knighted a wino".
Pernell Roberts played country music impresario Billy Joe Babcock, to whom Oscar owes a lot of money in gambling debts, and who does NOT take IOUs.
Jack Soo played Chinese wrestler Chuk Mai Chin.
Reta Shaw played a tough retired Army Colonel, Claire Frost, who works as housekeeper when Oscar is sick and Felix is too busy. She hails from Bayonne, New Jersey, and her domineering ways cause Oscar to derisively refer to her as "The Beast of Bayonne".
Penny Marshall, who played Oscar's secretary, Myrna Turner, made her last appearance in an episode in which she married "Sheldn" (his legal name since the "o" was omitted from his birth certificate), played by Rob Reiner, Marshall's husband at the time. Marshall's real-life brother and sister, Garry and Ronnie played Myrna's siblings, Werner Turner and Verna Turner, in the same episode.
Victor Buono appeared twice, as Mr. Lovelace, the eccentric new manager of the building in which Felix and Oscar live, who loves plants but hates people, and as Dr. Clove, an "exorcist" in an episode inspired by the film The Exorcist in which the boys think their apartment is haunted.
Albert Brooks, as Rudy Mandel, a pretentious advertising colleague of Felix (in two episodes in the show's first season)
William Redfield as Felix's brother Floyd Unger, owner of Unger Gum in Buffalo, New York.

Awards and nominations
During its original run, the show had mediocre ratings at best (the show was never among the Top 30 programs on the Nielsen ratings list during its entire run). Nonetheless, both actors were nominated for Emmy Awards in each year of the show's run. Jack Klugman won two Emmy Awards for his work (in 1971 and 1973), and Tony Randall won an Emmy as well (in 1975, upon accepting the award, he commented on the fact that he wished he "had a job,” as the show had recently been cancelled).
Klugman was nominated for a Golden Globe in 1972 and won one in 1974. The show itself was also nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series in the years 1971, 1972, and 1974. To date, these are the last Emmy nominations to a sitcom airing on a Friday night.

Opening narration and credit sequence
For the first three seasons, the program's opening credit sequence consisted of Felix and Oscar in various humorous situations around New York City. These scenes included Felix trying, to no avail, to help an old lady cross the street, Oscar walking into wet cement while ogling a girl with a revealing dress, Oscar eating a hot dog and getting chili on his shirt, and both men cavorting around a Maypole. The end of the introduction title sequence (for the series entire run) showed the duo sitting on a park bench in front of the William Tecumseh Sherman Monument in Grand Army Plaza at West 58th Street and Fifth Avenue, where Oscar throws his lunch wrapper on the ground, while Felix beckons him to pick it up.
Halfway through the show's debut season, a "prologue" was added to the introduction and featured a narration (the voice of actor Bill Woodson) retelling how Felix and Oscar came to live together:

"On November 13, Felix Unger was asked to remove himself from his place of residence." (Unger's unseen wife slams door, only to reopen it and hand Felix his pan.) "That request came from his wife. Deep down, he knew she was right. But he also knew that, someday, he would return to her. With nowhere else to go, he appeared at the home of his childhood friend, Oscar Madison. Sometime earlier, Madison's wife had thrown him out, requesting that he never return. Can two divorced men share an apartment, without driving each other crazy?"
ABC apparently added the narration because it did not want the audience to speculate about a homosexual subtext, given the changing perceptions of masculinity at the time. ABC insisted that every episode mention that the characters were both divorced. It was noted that Oscar had been thrown out of his home like Felix, when several episodes had shown that Oscar had lived in the same apartment before and during his marriage (as in the original play and film). Later, the opening narrative stated that when Felix moved into Oscar's apartment, Oscar was already divorced.
In another case, the fourth episode showed Felix and Oscar meeting during jury duty. Later, the opening narration included a retcon that they were childhood friends. During the second season, the narration changed it to them being “simply friends,” and the "sometime earlier" narrative was also changed to "several years earlier.”  Later, in an episode aired in 1973, the two were in the Army together, with Felix being Oscar's superior at the time Oscar and wife Blanche (Brett Somers) married. An episode aired in 1974, the epilogue showed Oscar's recollection of meeting Felix when they were children.In later seasons, the opening sequence featured highlights from past episodes, mixed with the previous footage as well as another clip (recreated from a scene on the show), in which Felix reprimands Oscar for drying his hands on the curtains, only to have Oscar use Felix's shirt as a towel as well.
For the first three seasons of the show, the closing credits of the show consisted of more of the duo's zany antics, such as Felix talking to a man repairing a street clock and Oscar indiscreetly looking at a peep show. During the fourth season, the credits included a scene where Oscar throws his cigar into a fountain in Columbus Circle, Felix barks at him to pick it up, and Oscar scoops it up with his shoe and then places the wet, soiled cigar butt in Felix's pocket. For the final season, the credits were shown against a blue background.

Related appearances by Klugman and Randall
Over the years, Klugman and Randall  appeared in many television commercials and public service announcements for several different products as Felix and Oscar, including 1972 ads for Yoplait yogurt (Klugman later appeared in commercials without Randall for the product in the early 1980s); in 1974, for the game Challenge Yahtzee; for a while, their likenesses also appeared on the game's packaging, with the slogan "You play your way—I'll play mine!"; in the late 1980s and early 1990s, Klugman and Randall reprised their Odd Couple characters in a series of commercials for Eagle Snacks, although in some of these spots they called each other by their real names.
Klugman and Randall also reprised their roles as Felix and Oscar in several regional productions of the original Neil Simon play. They toured in the play during the TV version's summertime off-season in the early to mid-1970s; they later appeared in several performances of the play during the late 1980s and early 1990s. In 1997, they appeared in a Broadway revival of the Simon play, The Sunshine Boys.In the early 1980s, while starring in the NBC drama Quincy, M.E., Klugman appeared in TV commercials for Canon copiers. Minolta countered by hiring Randall, then on the NBC sitcom Love, Sidney, to do a commercial for that company's copiers where he channeled his Felix role, mentioning that he "can change copy colors without getting that disgusting black powder all over my hands!" He closed by saying "But that doesn't mean I'm a neat freak. Of course, I'm not a slob, either, like, uh... " and waved his hand, to suggest Klugman as Oscar.Randall and Klugman reunited for the 1993 television movie, The Odd Couple Together Again to a mixed reception. Klugman had lost a vocal cord to throat cancer and this real-life struggle was written into the script. In the film, Felix tries to help Oscar recover following surgery; he also becomes overly involved in his daughter Edna's upcoming wedding, much to her and Gloria's (Barbara Barrie) dismay.

Other versions
An ABC cartoon version of The Odd Couple premiered on September 6, 1975 titled The Oddball Couple during the network's  Saturday morning kids' programming block, Funshine Saturday. Although authorized by Neil Simon (who received a "based on" credit) completely different characters were created: "Spiffy" (a fussy cat voiced by Frank Nelson) and "Fleabag" (a sloppy dog voiced by Paul Winchell) who live together in a house that is half rundown and messy and half pristine and tidy along with a matching car. It was directed and produced by  David DePatie and Friz Freleng, along with Gerry Chiniquy, and Robert McKimson among others, who directed several episodes. The characters' professions in this version were reversed from the original series, with the fastidious Spiffy working as a reporter and the rumpled Fleabag a photographer, often working together. The cartoon was canceled in 1977.In 1982, as a hedge against the 1981 Writers Guild of America strike, ABC aired an African-American version of The Odd Couple, starring  Ron Glass as Felix and Demond Wilson as Oscar. It was called The New Odd Couple, and initially used eight previously-filmed scripts from the original series; when the strike ended during the series' production, union writers returned, and original episodes were written from then on. It was canceled after only half a season.A Chilean version titled Una Pareja Dispareja began airing in January 2009 on TVN (which had aired the series during the 1970s). This version takes several of its cues from Two and a Half Men, a Chuck Lorre-created sitcom with a similar premise to The Odd Couple (even alluded to the similarities between the two in the episode "Whipped Unto The Third Generation"). Some of the details taken from Two and a Half Men include Felix and Oscar being siblings instead of friends, as well as Felix being a doctor and Oscar a musician.Another American remake, also called The Odd Couple, aired on CBS for three seasons from 2015 to 2017. This version, a multi-camera sitcom, was co-created and co-produced by Matthew Perry, who played Oscar, while Thomas Lennon played Felix.

Episodes
Home media
The Complete First Season of The Odd Couple was released on DVD in Region 1 on August 18, 2006 by Time Life Video under license from Paramount Home Entertainment (Paramount Television was the program's original distributor). Some episodes, mainly from the first season, were available on a VHS videotape set during the 1990s, and distributed by Columbia House.
Each episode on the First Season DVDs contain an introduction from the show's producer Garry Marshall. Also included as extras are Emmy Awards speeches, bloopers, TV interviews with the show's stars and a clip of The Odd Couple on Broadway.Paramount/CBS DVD have since released the remaining seasons (two through five) of The Odd Couple on DVD in Region 1. Season 1 was released in Region 2 on April 28, 2008. While the Time/Life Season 1 DVD release contained only unedited episodes as originally broadcast, CBS Home Entertainment opted to edit their DVDs of seasons two through five, removing short segments or occasionally entire scenes which included music sung by Felix or some other character. A notable example of this can be seen in the Season 5 episode "Strike Up the Band or Else" where, in the epilogue, guest star Pernell Roberts' character is going to sing, and the episode abruptly ends and closing credits roll. Fans and critics alike lambasted CBS/Paramount for the shoddy treatment The Odd Couple DVD releases received, concluding that the studio has misled consumers by labeling their DVD sets as "complete" when they have been intentionally edited to avoid paying royalties required by the music publishers.On June 16, 2015, CBS DVD released The Odd Couple- The Complete Series on DVD in Region 1, albeit with the same edits and removal of scenes with music.In Australia (Region 4), Paramount released The First Season in 2008, and no further releases were made. In 2016, Via Vision Entertainment obtained the rights to release the entire series from July 2016 through until September 2016. Followed by a Complete Series boxset in November 2016.
Passage 11:
Simon (cipher)
Simon is a family of lightweight block ciphers publicly released by the National Security Agency (NSA) in June 2013. Simon has been optimized for performance in hardware implementations, while its sister algorithm, Speck, has been optimized for software implementations.The NSA began working on the Simon and Speck ciphers in 2011. The agency anticipated some agencies in the US federal government would need a cipher that would operate well on a diverse collection of Internet of Things devices while maintaining an acceptable level of security.

Description of the cipher
The Simon block cipher is a balanced Feistel cipher with an n-bit word, and therefore the block length is 2n.  The key length is a multiple of n by 2, 3, or 4, which is the value m.  Therefore, a Simon cipher implementation is denoted as Simon2n/nm.  For example, Simon64/128 refers to the cipher operating on a 64-bit plaintext block (n = 32) that uses a 128-bit key. The block component of the cipher is uniform between the Simon implementations; however, the key generation logic is dependent on the implementation of 2, 3 or 4 keys.
Simon supports the following combinations of block sizes, key sizes and number of rounds:

Description of the key schedule
Let 
  
    
      
        
          S
          
            j
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle S^{j}}
   notate a left circular shift by 
  
    
      
        j
      
    
    {\displaystyle j}
   bits.
The key schedule is mathematically described as

  
    
      
        
          k
          
            i
            +
            m
          
        
        =
        
          {
          
            
              
                
                  c
                  ⊕
                  
                    
                      (
                      
                        z
                        
                          j
                        
                      
                      )
                    
                    
                      i
                    
                  
                  ⊕
                  
                    k
                    
                      i
                    
                  
                  ⊕
                  
                    (
                    
                      I
                      ⊕
                      
                        S
                        
                          −
                          1
                        
                      
                    
                    )
                  
                  
                    (
                    
                      
                        S
                        
                          −
                          3
                        
                      
                      
                        k
                        
                          i
                          +
                          1
                        
                      
                    
                    )
                  
                  ,
                
                
                  m
                  =
                  2
                
              
              
                
                  c
                  ⊕
                  
                    
                      (
                      
                        z
                        
                          j
                        
                      
                      )
                    
                    
                      i
                    
                  
                  ⊕
                  
                    k
                    
                      i
                    
                  
                  ⊕
                  
                    (
                    
                      I
                      ⊕
                      
                        S
                        
                          −
                          1
                        
                      
                    
                    )
                  
                  
                    (
                    
                      
                        S
                        
                          −
                          3
                        
                      
                      
                        k
                        
                          i
                          +
                          2
                        
                      
                    
                    )
                  
                  ,
                
                
                  m
                  =
                  3
                
              
              
                
                  c
                  ⊕
                  
                    
                      (
                      
                        z
                        
                          j
                        
                      
                      )
                    
                    
                      i
                    
                  
                  ⊕
                  
                    k
                    
                      i
                    
                  
                  ⊕
                  
                    (
                    
                      I
                      ⊕
                      
                        S
                        
                          −
                          1
                        
                      
                    
                    )
                  
                  
                    (
                    
                      
                        S
                        
                          −
                          3
                        
                      
                      
                        k
                        
                          i
                          +
                          3
                        
                      
                      ⊕
                      
                        k
                        
                          i
                          +
                          1
                        
                      
                    
                    )
                  
                  ,
                
                
                  m
                  =
                  4
                
              
            
          
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle k_{i+m}=\left\{{\begin{array}{ll}c\oplus \left(z_{j}\right)_{i}\oplus k_{i}\oplus \left(I\oplus S^{-1}\right)\left(S^{-3}k_{i+1}\right),&m=2\\c\oplus \left(z_{j}\right)_{i}\oplus k_{i}\oplus \left(I\oplus S^{-1}\right)\left(S^{-3}k_{i+2}\right),&m=3\\c\oplus \left(z_{j}\right)_{i}\oplus k_{i}\oplus \left(I\oplus S^{-1}\right)\left(S^{-3}k_{i+3}\oplus k_{i+1}\right),&m=4\\\end{array}}\right.}
  
The key schedule structure may or may not be balanced.  The key word count of 
  
    
      
        m
      
    
    {\displaystyle m}
   is used to determine the structure of the key expansion, resulting in a total bit width of  
  
    
      
        m
        ∗
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle m*n}
  .  The key word expansion consists of a right shift, XOR and a constant sequence, 
  
    
      
        
          z
          
            x
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z_{x}}
  .  The 
  
    
      
        
          z
          
            x
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z_{x}}
   bit operates on the lowest bit of the key word once per round.

Description of the constant sequence
The constant sequence,  
  
    
      
        
          z
          
            x
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z_{x}}
  , is created by a Linear Feedback Shift Register (LFSR).  The logical sequence of bit constants is set by the value of the key and block sizes.   The LFSR is created by a 5-bit field.  The constant bit operates on a key block once per round on the lowest bit in order to add non-key-dependent entropy to the key schedule. The LFSR has different logic for each  
  
    
      
        
          z
          
            x
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z_{x}}
   sequence; however, the initial condition is the same for encryption.  The initial condition of the LFSR for decryption varies on the round.

Cryptanalysis
The designers claim that Simon, though a "lightweight" cipher, is designed to have the full security possible for each block and key size, against standard chosen-plaintext (CPA) and chosen-ciphertext (CCA) attacks.  Resistance against related-key attacks was also stated as a goal, though a less crucial one as attacks in that model are not relevant for typical use cases.: 2   No effort was made to resist attacks in the known-key distinguishing attack model, nor did the designers evaluate Simon for use as a hash function.As of 2018, no successful attack on full-round Simon of any variant is known.  Due to interest in Simon and Speck, about 70 cryptanalysis papers have been published on them.: 10   As is typical for iterated ciphers, reduced-round variants have been successfully attacked.  The best published attacks on Simon in the standard attack model (CPA/CCA with unknown key) are differential cryptanalysis attacks; these make it through about 70–75% of the rounds of most variants, though these best attacks are only marginally faster than brute-force.: 12   The design team states that while designing Simon, they found differential attacks to be the limiting attacks, i.e. the type of attack that makes it through the most rounds; they then set the number of rounds to leave a security margin similar to AES-128's at approximately 30%.: 12–13 
Simon has been criticized for having too small a security margin, i.e. too few rounds between the best attacks and the full cipher, in comparison to more conservative ciphers such as ChaCha20.
Ciphers with small security margins are more likely to be broken by future advances in cryptanalysis.  Simon's design team counters that there is a real-world cost to unnecessarily large security margins, especially on lightweight devices, that cryptanalysis during the design phase allowed the number of rounds to be set appropriately, and that they targeted AES's security margin.: 17 Simon includes a round counter in the key schedule.  The designers state this was included to block slide and rotational cryptanalysis attacks.: 16   Still, rotational-XOR cryptanalysis has been used to find distinguishers against reduced-round versions of related ciphers like Speck. Though the authors don't describe standard key-recovery attacks based on their distinguishers, their best distinguishers on Simon32 and Simon48 in the known-key distinguishing attack model for certain weak key classes make it through slightly more rounds than the best differential distinguishers.  One of the authors has said that his research was resource-constrained and that rotational-XOR distinguishers on more rounds are probably possible. The designers also state that Simon was not designed to resist known-key distinguishing attacks (which do not directly compromise the confidentiality of ciphers).: 8 The designers state that NSA cryptanalysis found the algorithms to have no weaknesses, and security commensurate with their key lengths.: 2   The design team says that their cryptanalysis included linear and differential cryptanalysis using standard techniques such as Matsui's algorithm and SAT/SMT solvers, though a full list of techniques used is not given.: 10   Simon's designers have been criticized for not providing more details on NSA cryptanalysis of the ciphers.The NSA has approved Simon128/256 and Speck128/256 for use in U.S. National Security Systems, though AES-256 is still recommended for non-constrained applications.

Standardization efforts and controversies
Initial attempts to standardise Simon and Speck failed to meet International Organization for Standardization super-majority required by the process and the ciphers were not adopted. Expert delegates to the ISO from several countries including Germany, Japan and Israel opposed the efforts by the NSA to standardise the Simon and Speck ciphers, citing concerns that the NSA is pushing for their standardisation with knowledge of exploitable weaknesses in the ciphers. The position was based on partial evidence of weaknesses in the ciphers, lack of clear need for standardisation of the new ciphers, and the NSA's previous involvement in the creation and promotion of the backdoored Dual_EC_DRBG cryptographic algorithm.In response to concerns, the NSA stated that more than 70 security analysis papers from some of the world's leading cryptographers support NSA's conclusion that the algorithms are secure and NSA affirmed that it is not aware of any cryptanalytic techniques that would allow them or anyone else to exploit Simon or Speck.
After initial attempts to standardise the ciphers failed, the ISO standardised Simon and Speck in other working groups. As of October 2018, the Simon and Speck ciphers have been standardized by ISO as a part of the RFID air interface standard, International Standard ISO/29167-21 (for Simon) and International Standard ISO/29167-22 (for Speck), making them available for use by commercial entities.

See also
Balanced boolean function
Bent function
Passage 12:
Sam's Game
Sam's Game was a celebrity poker program on Playboy TV. It featured a lineup of comedians, Playmates, and professional Texas Hold 'Em players and was hosted by Simpsons' co-developer, Sam Simon.

Format
Shot at Hugh Hefner's private sky villa at the Palms Resort, the show featured celebrities playing traditional Texas Hold 'Em with their own actual money, as opposed to charity contributions.
Women in Playboy bunny costumes served as the card dealers and cocktail waitresses. A variety of comedians, actresses, professional card players, and ex-Playmates made up the rotating table of players, with Sam Simon being the only constant.

Featured players
Norm Macdonald
Artie Lange
Brande Roderick
Dave Attell
Jennifer Tilly
Jeff Ross
Deanna Brooks
Andrea Lowell
Phil Laak
Jay Kogen
Passage 13:
The Essential Simon and Garfunkel
The Essential Simon & Garfunkel is the second 2-CD compilation album of greatest hits by Simon & Garfunkel, released by Columbia Records on October 14, 2003.
This two-disc anthology was released to coincide with Simon & Garfunkel's 2003 reunion tour. It contains all of the duo's 16 singles originally released between 1964 and 1975 to reach the Hot 100 (including the 1975 reunion hit, "My Little Town"). The remaining 17 songs include non-hits like “Richard Cory”, and eight live performances from 1967 to 1969.

Track listing
All songs composed by Paul Simon, except where noted.

US version
Disc one

Disc two

Disc three (3.0 edition)

1 He Was My Brother
2	April Come She Will
3 7 O'Clock News/Silent Night
4	Punky's Dilemma
5	Why Don't You Write Me
6	Citizen of the Planet

European version
Disc one

Disc two

Charts
Certifications