Passage 1:
Waterfalls (album)
Waterfalls is a live album by American saxophonist and composer John Klemmer featuring studio enhanced live performances recorded in Los Angeles for the Impulse! label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 4 stars stating it is "Worth investigating by open-eared listeners".

Track listing
All compositions by John Klemmer"Prelude I" – 3:33
"Waterfalls" – 4:19
"Utopia: Man's Dream, Part 1" – 8:47
"Utopia: Man's Dream, Part 2" – 3:50
"There's Some Light Ahead" – 4:29
"Centrifugal Force" – 5:59
"Prelude II" – 4:02
"Waterfall II" – 6:08Recorded in performance at the Ash Grove in Los Angeles, California on June 17, 1972 and "enchanted" at The Village Recorder in Los Angeles on June 22, 1972

Personnel
John Klemmer – tenor saxophone, soprano saxophone, echoplex
Mike Nock – electric piano
Wilton Felder – electric bass
Eddie Marshall – drums
Victor Feldman – percussion
Diana Lee – vocals (tracks 3, 4 & 6)
Passage 2:
The Main Attraction (album)
The Main Attraction is an album by American jazz guitarist Grant Green featuring performances recorded in 1976 and released on the Kudu label.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Thom Jurek awarded the album two stars and stated "While it's true that this isn't one of Green's best records, it's not by any means his worst... Contrary to jazz critics' opinions, Green had nothing to be ashamed of on Main Attraction. If funky '70s soul-jazz is your thing, you won't go wrong with this one".

Track listing
"The Main Attraction" (Don Grolnick, Steve Khan, Will Lee, David Matthews, Andy Newmark) - 19:35
"Future Feature" (Matthews) - 7:47
"Creature" (Grant Green) - 10:20Recorded at Rudy Van Gelder Studio, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey in March 1976 with additional recording at A&R Studios, NYC

Personnel
Grant Green - guitar
Burt Collins, Jon Faddis - trumpet
Sam Burtis - trombone
Hubert Laws - flute
Michael Brecker, Joe Farrell - tenor saxophone
Ronnie Cuber - baritone saxophone
Don Grolnick - electric piano, clavinet
Steve Khan - rhythm guitar
Will Lee - electric bass
Andy Newmark - drums
Carlos Charles - conga, percussion
Sue Evans - percussion
Dave Matthews - arranger, conductor
Passage 3:
Something Personal
Something Personal is an album by American jazz pianist Jack Wilson featuring performances recorded and released on the Blue Note label in 1967.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 4½ stars and stated "this album is an excellent showcase for the often-overlooked Jack Wilson".

Track listing
All compositions by Jack Wilson except as indicated"Most Unsoulful Woman" - 6:53
"The Sphinx" (Ornette Coleman) - 5:07
"Shosh" - (Blues in F) 8:59
"Serenata" (Leroy Anderson) - 6:58
"Harbor Freeway 5 P.M." - 7:12
"C.F.D." - 4:58
"One and Four" [aka. "Mr. Day"] (John Coltrane) - 4:51 Bonus track on CD reissueRecorded  on August 9 (4, 6-7) and August 10 (1-3, 5), 1966.

Personnel
Jack Wilson - piano
Roy Ayers - vibes
Ray Brown - bass (#3-6), cello (#1-2)
Charles 'Buster' Williams - bass (#1-2)
Varney Barlow - drums
Passage 4:
Rain, Hail or Shine
Rain, Hail or Shine, an album by The Battlefield Band, was released in 1998 on the Temple Records label. The total running time is 45:38.

Track listing
"Bodachan a Gharaidh/General Macdonal/Craig an Fhithich" – 3:47
"Heave Ya Ho" – 4:30
"Margaret Ann/Manor Park/Trip to the Bronx" – 5:24
"Jenny O' the Braes" – 3:23
"Magheraclone/Norland Wind/Royal Scottish Pipers Soc./Gardez Loo/Donald" – 9:24
"The Beaches of St. Valery/Elizabeth Clare" – 6:27
"Wee Michael's March/Oot B'est da Vong" – 4:03
"The Lass O' Glencoe" – 4:24
"The Canongate Twitch/Steamboat to Detroit/Twenty Pounds of Gin/Break Yer Ba" – 6:54

Personnel
Battlefield Band
Alan Reid (keyboards, guitar, vocals, writing...)
Davy Steele (lead vocals, writing...)
John McCusker (fiddle, whistle...)
Mike Katz (Highland pipes, small pipes, various whistles...)

Sources and links
Rain, Hail or Shine at AllMusic
Passage 5:
The Jazz Skyline
The Jazz Skyline is an album by American jazz vibraphonist Milt Jackson featuring performances recorded in 1956 and released on the Savoy label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Bob Rusch states: "This session has interest as an example of Milt Jackson's mid-'50s work in a non-Modern Jazz Quartet context. And despite the many critical assertions that the vibist was restrained by pianist John Lewis' direction, his playing here revealed no marked change".

Track listing
"Lover" (Lorenz Hart, Richard Rodgers) - 7:45
"Can't Help Lovin' Dat Man" (Oscar Hammerstein II, Jerome Kern) - 4:35
"The Lady Is a Tramp" (Hart, Rodgers) - 7:18
"Angel Face" (Hank Jones) - 6:38
"Sometimes I'm Happy" (Irving Caesar, Vincent Youmans) - 7:15
"What's New?" (Johnny Burke, Bob Haggart) - 3:51

Personnel
Milt Jackson – vibes
Lucky Thompson - tenor saxophone
Hank Jones - piano
Wendell Marshall - bass
Kenny Clarke – drums
Passage 6:
Rain on the Window
Rain on the Window is an album by English saxophonist John Surman with organist Howard Moody recorded in 2006 and released on the ECM label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Michael G. Nastos awarded the album 3½ stars, stating, "If the listener enjoys a variety of folk forms turned into modern music, Rain on the Window may be appropriate, used here and there for any precipitous, or sunny day".

Track listing
All compositions by John Surman except as indicated"Circum I" - 3:58
"Stained Glass" - 3:49
"The Old Dutch" - 3:30
"Dancing in the Loft" (Howard Moody, John Surman) - 1:53
"Step Lively!" (Moody, Surman) - 3:06
"Stone Ground" - 4:19
"Tierce" (Moody) - 2:59
"Circum II" - 2:03
"Rain on the Window" - 4:06
"Dark Reeds" (Moody, Surman) - 2:50
"O Waly Waly" (Traditional) - 2:43
"A Spring Wedding" - 3:07
"I'm Troubled in Mind" (Traditional) - 2:47
"On the Go" - 3:59
"Pax Vobiscum" - 4:12Recorded at Ullern Church in Oslo, Norway in January 2006.

Personnel
John Surman – soprano saxophone, baritone saxophone, bass clarinet
Howard Moody – church organ
Passage 7:
Plenty, Plenty Soul
Plenty, Plenty Soul is an album by American jazz vibraphonist Milt Jackson featuring performances recorded in 1957 and released on the Atlantic label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow stated that "these all-star dates still sound fresh and enthusiastic decades later".

Track listing
All compositions by Milt Jackson, except as indicated"Plenty, Plenty Soul" (Milt Jackson, Quincy Jones) - 9:33
"Boogity Boogity" (Jones) - 4:55
"Heartstrings" - 4:53
"Sermonette" (Cannonball Adderley) - 5:23
"The Spirit-Feel" - 4:22
"Ignunt Oil" - 5:35
"Blues at Twilight" (Jones) - 6:46Recorded in New York City on January 5 (tracks 4–7) and January 7 (tracks 1–3), 1957

Personnel
Milt Jackson – vibes
Joe Newman - trumpet
Jimmy Cleveland - trombone (tracks 1–3)
Cannonball Adderley - alto saxophone (tracks 1–3)
Frank Foster (tracks 1–3), Lucky Thompson (tracks 4–7) - tenor saxophone
Sahib Shihab - baritone saxophone (tracks 1–3)
Horace Silver - piano
Percy Heath (tracks 1–3), Oscar Pettiford (tracks 4–7) - bass
Art Blakey (tracks 1–3), Connie Kay (tracks 4––7) – drums
Quincy Jones - arranger (tracks 1–3)
Passage 8:
Three for Shepp
Three for Shepp is an album by American saxophonist Marion Brown featuring performances recorded in 1966 for the Impulse! label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Thom Jurek awarded the album 4½ stars, stating: "Marion Brown's Three for Shepp is the image-in-the-mirror companion to Archie Shepp's Four for Trane recorded the year before. The program is equally divided between Brown's originals, which occupy the first half of the album, and Shepp tunes that take up the latter half. What is immediately striking is how similar in tone, color, and texture the two men were when it came to composition. Brown arms himself here with crack bands for these recordings... This is a classic Impulse! recording of the period by an overlooked master."The authors of the Penguin Jazz Guide wrote: "Brown's Impulse! records are routinely overlooked... In the wake of this, his first successful record, Brown took to the road, playing tirelessly but curbing his studio activities. Impulse! had already released Shepp's Four For Trane. This was explicitly intended as a companion project and its arresting opening... establishes it as one of the most inventive in the label's distinguished catalogue... Brief as it is at just 35 minutes, Three For Shepp is so densely packed with musical information that it takes many, many listens to deconstruct: a living lesson in musical history, a passionate manifesto for the future."A reviewer at SoundOhm included the album in the "Best of 2019" playlist, and stated: "Three For Shepp balances fiery energy and delicate precision... Even this early in his career, Brown stood apart from his peers in "the new thing." His solos were as gentle as they were furious. Informed by the African American folk traditions of his native Georgia and an enthusiastic embrace of the avant-garde, his music would confront and challenge society. As Brown says in the original liner notes, 'The music is definitely a part of what's going on in the black revolution in America.'  Three For Shepp still sounds crucial today (over 50 years later) and remains a vital statement of jazz's past, present and future."

Track listing
All compositions by Marion Brown except as noted

"New Blue" - 5:11
"Fortunato" - 8:54
"The Shadow Knows" - 3:04
"Spooks" (Archie Shepp) - 4:32
"West India" (Shepp) - 6:24
"Delicado" (Shepp) - 6:38

Personnel
Marion Brown - alto saxophone
Grachan Moncur III - trombone
Dave Burrell (tracks 1-3), Stanley Cowell (tracks 4-6) - piano
Norris Jones - bass
Bobby Capp (tracks 1-3), Beaver Harris (tracks 4-6) – drums
Passage 9:
2 Horns / 2 Rhythm
2 Horns / 2 Rhythm is an album by American jazz trumpeter Kenny Dorham, featuring performances with Ernie Henry. It was recorded in 1957 and released on Riverside Records. This was Henry's last recording session.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album four stars and stated "The sparse setting (unusual for a Dorham session) works quite well".

Track listing
Recorded in New York City on November 13 (tracks 1–3, 5–7 & 9) and December 2 (tracks 4 & 8), 1957

Personnel
Kenny Dorham – trumpet, piano (track 3)
Ernie Henry – alto saxophone
Eddie Mathias (tracks 1–3, 5–7 & 9), Wilbur Ware (tracks 4 & 8) – bass
G.T. Hogan – drums
Passage 10:
Lee Aaron (album)
Lee Aaron is the fourth studio album by singer Lee Aaron, released on 17 February 1987 through Attic Records; a remastered edition was reissued in 2002 through Unidisc Music. It is Aaron's third-highest charting album, reaching No. 39 on the Canadian albums chart and remaining on that chart for seventeen weeks, as well as reaching the top 60 in three other countries. Two singles reached the Canadian singles chart: "Only Human" at No. 44 and "Goin' Off the Deep End" at No. 93.

Critical reception
Glenn Miller at AllMusic gave Lee Aaron three stars out of five, describing it as "refreshing, showcasing the best songwriting and strongest music of [Aaron's] career", and that she "succeeds in this softer, commercial vein with mature subject matter."

Track listing
Personnel
Lee Aaron – lead vocals, background vocals, arrangement
John Albani – guitar, background vocals, arrangement
Jim Gelcer – keyboard, background vocals, arrangement
Randy Cooke – drums, percussion, arrangement
Chris Brockway – bass, background vocals, arrangement
David Roberts – background vocals (tracks 3, 5), arrangement
Peter Coleman – arrangement, production

Chart performance
Album
Singles
Passage 11:
Crystal (Ahmad Jamal album)
Crystal is an album by American jazz pianist Ahmad Jamal featuring performances recorded in 1987 and released on the Atlantic label.

Critical reception
In an Allmusic review by Scott Yanow states "There are some magical moments on this quartet set... Jamal's control of dynamics and inventive use of space proved to be as effective as it had been when he first made his mark in the 1950s, although his chord voicings and general style had evolved. Jamal and his group perform ten of his originals with taste, swing and subtle surprises".

Track listing
All compositions by Ahmad Jamal

"Quest for Light" – 4:48
"Arabesque" – 4:48
"Avo" – 7:04
"Piano Solo" – 1:57
"For My Daughter" – 3:34
"Perugia" – 3:57
"The Last Day" – 6:00
"Crystal" – 4:58
"Swahililand" – 4:08
"The Canteen" – 3:08

Personnel
Ahmad Jamal – piano
James Cammack – bass
David Bowler – drums
Willie White – percussion
Passage 12:
Jazz Contemporary
Jazz Contemporary is an album by American jazz trumpeter Kenny Dorham featuring performances recorded in 1960 and released on the Time label. The album features the recording debut of pianist Steve Kuhn.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 2½ stars and stated "The results are not quite essential but everyone plays up to par... It's fine hard bop, the modern mainstream music of the period".

Track listing
All compositions by Kenny Dorham except as indicated"A Waltz" - 5:34
"Monk's Mood" (Thelonious Monk) - 8:09
"In Your Own Sweet Way" (Dave Brubeck) - 8:01
"Horn Salute" - 8:27
"Tonica" - 2:57
"This Love of Mine" (Sol Parker, Henry W. Sanicola Jr., Frank Sinatra) - 6:49Bonus tracks on CD reissue:

"Sign Off" - 5:29
"A Waltz" [alternate take] - 5:36
"Monk's Mood" [alternate take] (Monk) - 2:53
"This Love of Mine" [alternate take] (Parker, Sanicola, Sinatra) - 7:55Recorded on February 11 (tracks 2, 3, 7, 8, 10) and February 12, 1960 (tracks 1, 4-6, 9).

Personnel
Kenny Dorham - trumpet
Charles Davis - baritone saxophone
Steve Kuhn - piano
Jimmy Garrison (tracks 2, 3, 7, 8 & 10), Butch Warren (tracks 1, 4-6 & 9)  - bass
Buddy Enlow - drums
Passage 13:
Opus de Jazz
Opus de Jazz (subtitled A Hi-Fi Recording for Flute, Vibes, Piano, Bass, Drums) is an album by American jazz vibraphonist Milt Jackson featuring performances recorded in 1955 and released on the Savoy label.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow stated: "This is not essential, but it is enjoyable music."

Track listing
"Opus de Funk" (Horace Silver) – 13:28
"Opus Pocus" (Ozzie Cadena) – 7:25
"You Leave Me Breathless" (Ralph Freed, Frederick Hollander) – 6:27
"Opus and Interlude" (Cadena) – 6:30Recorded in New York City on October 28, 1955

Personnel
Milt Jackson – vibes
Frank Wess – tenor saxophone, track 2; flute, tracks 1, 3 and 4
Hank Jones – piano
Eddie Jones – bass
Kenny Clarke – drums
Passage 14:
Tijuana Jazz
Tijuana Jazz is an album by American jazz vibraphonist Gary McFarland and trumpeter Clark Terry featuring performances recorded in 1965 for the Impulse! label. The album was also released in the UK on the HMV label as CLP3541.

Reception
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 3 stars stating: "McFarland's arrangements are fine, but the solos are quite short, and the Mexican-flavored music is not particularly memorable. A blown opportunity".

Track listing
All compositions by Gary McFarland except as indicated"South of the Border" (Jimmy Kennedy, Michael Carr) - 2:06
"Acapulco at Night" - 2:52
"Fantastic, That's You" (George Cates, George Douglas) - 2:54
"Limehouse Blues" (Philip Braham, Douglas Furber) - 3:37
"Tijuana" (Cates, Douglas) - 2:09
"Marcheta" (Victor Schertzinger) - 2:55
"Granny's Samba" - 3:30
"Soul Bird (Tin Tin Deo)" (Gil Fuller, Chano Pozo) - 4:01
"Mexicali Rose" (Jack Tenney, Helen Stone) - 2:27
"Ira Schwartz's Golden Dream" - 3:32
"Mary Jane" - 3:05
"Sweet Georgia Brown" (Ben Bernie, Kenneth Casey, Maceo Pinkard) - 2:06Recorded in New York City on December 3, 1965 (tracks 1, 2, 6 & 9), December 6, 1965 (tracks 4, 8, 11 & 12), and December 7, 1965 (tracks 3, 5, 7 & 10)

Personnel
Gary McFarland – marimba, electric piano
Joe Newman, Clark Terry - trumpet, flugelhorn
Bob Brookmeyer – valve trombone
Toots Thielemans - harmonica, guitar
Barry Galbraith - guitar
Bob Bushnell – electric bass
Mel Lewis, Grady Tate – drums
Passage 15:
It's What's Happenin'
It's What's Happenin' (subtitled The Varitone Sound of Clark Terry) is an album by American jazz trumpeter Clark Terry featuring performances recorded in 1967 for the Impulse! label.  Remastered in 2012 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Impulse! Records, it was reissued together with Terry's only other record for the label as a solo leader, The Happy Horns of Clark Terry.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Richard S. Ginell awarded the album 3 stars stating "Not many will bother to recall that Clark Terry was the first trumpeter to make a recording with Selmer's Varitone attachment -- an electronic hookup to an amplifier that allowed a horn player to play octaves. Though the instrument quickly fell out of favor after a very brief vogue, it still produced an attractively soulful sound that was a good fit with Terry's jaunty, slurry, note-bending manner... there is nothing unmusically sensational about anything that happens here.".

Track listing
All compositions by Clark Terry except where noted.

"Electric Mumbles" - 3:51
"Secret Love" (Paul Francis Webster, Sammy Fain) - 6:15
"Take Me Back to Elkhart" - 7:11
"Take the "A" Train" (Billy Strayhorn) - 5:03
"Tee Pee Time" - 6:25
"Grand Canyon Suite" (Ferde Grofé) - 7:05

Personnel
Clark Terry - Varitone trumpet
Don Friedman - piano
George Duvivier - bass
Dave Bailey - drums
Passage 16:
Emotional Rain
Emotional Rain is the seventh studio album by singer Lee Aaron, released on August 3, 1994 through A&M Records (Canada) and in 1995 through Koch Entertainment (Europe); it was later reissued in 2004 through Solid Gold Records.

Track listing
Personnel
Lee Aaron – vocals, background vocals, mixing, executive production
John Albani – guitar (except tracks 13, 14), mixing, production
Knox Chandler – guitar (except tracks 13, 14)
Reeves Gabrels – guitar (except tracks 13, 14)
Don Harrison – guitar (tracks 13–14)
Don Short – drums
Daniel Mansilla – additional percussion
Don Binns – bass
Kim Deschamp – mandolin
Billy Newton-Davis – background vocals
Mischke – background vocals
Brad Nelson – engineering, mixing
Mark Berry – engineering, mixing
L. Stu Young – engineering
Graham Brewer – engineering
David Tedesco – engineering
Ray Gilliland – engineering
Keith Stein – engineering
Peter Wonsiak – engineering
Mark S. Berry – mixing, production
Passage 17:
Soundsigns
Soundsigns is an album by the American jazz saxophonist Dewey Redman of performances recorded in 1978 for the Galaxy label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 3 stars stating "Recorded at the same sessions that resulted in Musics, this LP (which has not yet been reissued on CD) is actually more exploratory".

Track listing
All compositions by Redman except as indicated"Piece for Tenor and Two Basses"  - 8:23
"Half Nelson" (Miles Davis) - 10:07
"Adesso Lo Sai" - 13:59
"Come Earth" - 8:00Recorded at Fantasy Studios in Berkeley, California on October 18 & 19, 1978

Personnel
Dewey Redman - tenor saxophone (tracks 1-3), harp (track 4)
Fred Simmons - piano (tracks 2 & 3)
Charlie Haden (tracks 1 & 4), Mark Helias - bass
Eddie Moore - drums, saw, cymbal (tracks 2-4)
Passage 18:
More Blues and the Abstract Truth
More Blues and the Abstract Truth is an album by American jazz composer, conductor and arranger Oliver Nelson featuring performances recorded in 1964 for the Impulse! label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow awarded the album 4 stars, stating: "Unlike the original classic Blues and the Abstract Truth set from three years earlier, Oliver Nelson does not play on this album. He did contribute three of the eight originals and all of the arrangements but his decision not to play is disappointing... The emphasis is on blues-based pieces and there are some strong moments even if the date falls short of its predecessor".

Track listing
All compositions by Oliver Nelson except as noted

"Blues and the Abstract Truth" - 5:14
"Blues O'Mighty" (Hodges) - 6:48
"Theme from Mr. Broadway" (Brubeck) - 5:45
"Midnight Blue" (Neal Hefti) - 4:06
"The Critic's Choice" - 2:21
"One for Bob" - 6:07
"Blues for Mr. Broadway" (Brubeck) - 8:12
"Goin' to Chicago Blues" (Count Basie, Jimmy Rushing) - 4:37
"One for Phil" - 3:58 Bonus track on CD reissue
"Night Lights" (Arnold Shaw) - 2:46 Bonus track on CD reissueRecorded on November 10, 1964 (tracks 4 & 6–9), and November 11, 1964 (tracks 1–3, 5 & 10).

Personnel
Oliver Nelson - arranger, conductor
Thad Jones, Danny Moore (tracks 1 & 5) - trumpet
Phil Woods - alto saxophone
Ben Webster - tenor saxophone (tracks 4 & 7)
Phil Bodner - tenor saxophone, English horn
Pepper Adams - baritone saxophone
Roger Kellaway - piano
Richard Davis – bass
Grady Tate – drums
Passage 19:
Fire and Rain (song)
"Fire and Rain" is a song written and performed by American singer-songwriter James Taylor, released in August 1970 by Warner Bros. Records as the second single from Taylor's second studio album, Sweet Baby James. The song follows Taylor's reaction to the suicide of Suzanne Schnerr, a childhood friend, and his experiences with drug addiction and fame. After its release, "Fire and Rain" peaked at number two on RPM's Canada Top Singles chart and at number three on the Billboard Hot 100.

Background and composition
On the VH1 series Storytellers, Taylor said the song was about several incidents during his early recording career.  The second line "Suzanne, the plans they made put an end to you" refers to Suzanne Schnerr, a childhood friend of his who died by suicide while he was in London, England, recording his first album. In that same account, Taylor said he had been in a deep depression after the failure of his new band the Flying Machine to coalesce (the lyric "Sweet dreams and Flying Machines in pieces on the ground"; the reference is to the name of the band rather than a fatal plane crash, as was long rumored). Taylor completed writing the song while in rehab.In 2005, during an interview on NPR, Taylor explained to host Scott Simon that the song was written in three parts:
The first part was about Taylor's friend Suzanne, who died while Taylor was in London working on his first album after being signed to Apple Records. Friends at home, concerned that it might distract Taylor from his big break, kept the tragic news from him, and he found out six months later.
The second part details Taylor's struggle to overcome drug addiction and depression.
The third part deals with coming to grips with fame and fortune, looking back at the road that got him there. It includes a reference to James Taylor and the Flying Machine, a band he briefly worked with before his big break with Paul McCartney, Peter Asher, and Apple Records.Carole King played piano on the song. Drummer Russ Kunkel used brushes rather than sticks on his drum kit, and Bobby West played double bass in place of a bass guitar to "underscore the melancholy on the song".

Reception
Record World said that the release of Taylor's version as a single after several cover versions had been released "was bound to come along. With so many versions out there is no reason the excellent original will not be THE one." Cash Box similarly referred to Taylor releasing it as a single saying "Now, the fourth or fifth to release his own 'Fire & Rain,' Taylor may have found his sought after single hit the hard way. The 'original' comes in the wake of R. B. Greaves' sales and Johnny Rivers' current treatment (not to mention BS&T's album track getting further notice)."  Billboard described it as a "poignant ballad."Broadcast Music, Inc. ranked "Fire and Rain" at number 82 on its "Top 100 Songs of the Century" list, while voters for the National Endowment for the Arts and Recording Industry Association of America's Songs of the Century list, which comprises 365 songs of "historical significance" recorded from 1900 to 2000, placed "Fire and Rain" at number 85. In April 2011, the song was named at number 227 on Rolling Stone's list of 500 greatest songs of all time.

Chart performance
Weekly charts
Other versions
Certifications
Cover versions
R. B. Greaves and Johnny Rivers first released singles of "Fire and Rain" in 1970. Warner Brothers released Taylor's original as a single later that year, in August 1970. Greaves' and Rivers' versions peaked at numbers 82 and 94 on the Billboard Hot 100, respectively.Billboard predicted that Greaves' version would be a hit and said that "The James Taylor song is a natural and the production matches the song in merit."  Record World also predicted it to be a hit and said that Taylor and Greaves "are perfect together."Record World called Rivers' version "top quality stuff." Cash Box said of Rivers' version that "the tang of country pop and a top forty arrangement make this the most commercial single yet on 'Fire & Rain.'"American singer-songwriter Tim Hardin (cited by James Taylor as a songwriting influence) included a "heartwrenchingly moving" rendition of "Fire and Rain" on his 1973 album Nine.
Marcia Hines covered "Fire and Rain" on her 1975 debut LP, Marcia Shines.  Her version reached No. 17 in Australia. At the 1975 Australian Record Awards, the song won Hines Female Vocal Single of the Year.

References in other works
Taylor references the song in another of his compositions, "That's Why I'm Here", title track from his 1985 album, in which he writes, "Fortune and fame's such a curious game. Perfect strangers can call you by name. Pay good money to hear 'Fire and Rain' again and again and again."
He also refers to the song in another composition, "Money Machine" (a cynical take on the financial aspects of the recording industry): "When I began the game, see me singing ‘bout Fire and Rain; Lemme just sing it again — I've seen fives and I’ve seen tens."
Carole King has stated that her song "You've Got a Friend", which Taylor recorded, was a response to the line in the refrain, "I've seen lonely times when I could not find a friend."

Parodies
Taylor performs the song on The Simpsons in the episode "Deep Space Homer". While singing the song for a group of astronauts (including Homer Simpson and Buzz Aldrin), he changes the lyric "Sweet dreams and flying machines in pieces on the ground" to "Sweet dreams and flying machines, flying safely through the air" when he realizes the Space Shuttle may crash.In 2015, Taylor appeared on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, where he sang a version including numerous references to post-1970 popular culture.
Passage 20:
Groovin' with Golson
Groovin' with Golson is the sixth album by saxophonist Benny Golson featuring performances recorded in 1959 and originally released on the New Jazz label.

Reception
The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow states, "the hard bop music does indeed groove in its own fashion".

Track listing
All compositions by Benny Golson except where noted.

"My Blues House" - 9:25
"Drum Boogie" (Roy Eldridge, Gene Krupa) - 3:59
"I Didn't Know What Time It Was" (Richard Rodgers, Lorenz Hart) - 5:25
"The Stroller" - 9:18
"Yesterdays" (Jerome Kern, Otto Harbach) - 5:54

Personnel
Benny Golson - tenor saxophone
Curtis Fuller - trombone
Ray Bryant - piano
Paul Chambers - bass
Art Blakey - drums