Passage 1:
Paterson River
Paterson River, a perennial river that is part of the Hunter River catchment, is located in the Hunter and Mid North Coast regions of New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Paterson River rises in the Barrington Tops National Park, west by north of Careys Peak, and flows generally south and southeast, joined by six minor tributaries including the Allyn River at Vacy, before reaching its confluence with the Hunter River between Hinton and Morpeth. Between Hinton and Duns Creek, the Paterson River forms the border between the Port Stephens and Maitland local government areas. The river system courses through fertile the farming land of the Paterson and Allyn River Valleys and the historic Patersons Plains; descending 933 metres (3,061 ft) over its 151 kilometres (94 mi) course.The river is impounded by Lostock Dam, located 48 kilometres (30 mi) downstream from the source in the Barringtons. The embankment dam was constructed by the New South Wales Department of Water Resources to supply water for irrigation and was completed in 1971. The river is tidal to above the village of Paterson and below Vacy.Riverside towns within the Paterson's catchment include Gresford, Vacy, Paterson, Woodville and Hinton.
Colonel William Paterson surveyed the area along the river in 1801. Later Governor King named it in his honour.
Passage 2:
Horse Mesa Dam
The Horse Mesa Dam is a concrete thin arch dam located in the Superstition Mountains, northeast of Phoenix in Maricopa County, Arizona.
The dam is 660 feet (200 m) long, 300 feet (91 m) high and was built between 1924 and 1927. The dam includes three conventional hydroelectric generating units totaling 32 megawatts (MW) and a pumped-storage unit with a capacity of 97 MW.
The dam and associated infrastructure were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2017.
A few homes are nearby for temporary employee housing. Its name is derived from when sheep-herders used to graze their saddle and pack animals on the mesa when they were driving their flocks through the area. It has an estimated elevation of 2,067 feet (630 m) above sea level.

Reservoir
The dam forms Apache Lake as it impounds the Salt River. The dam and reservoir are located downstream from the Theodore Roosevelt Dam, and upstream from the Mormon Flat Dam.
Passage 3:
Darling Mills Creek
The Darling Mills Creek, an urban watercourse that is part of the Parramatta River catchment, is located in Greater Western Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
The Darling Mills Creek rises in the north-western suburbs of Sydney, west of Thompsons Corner, near the intersection of Castle Hill Road and Pennant Hills Road, within the suburb of West Pennant Hills. The headwaters lie on the watershed between the Hornsby Plateau and the Cumberland Plain. The creek flows generally west, then south, joined by its tributaries including the Bidjigal, Sawmill, Excelsior, Blue Gum, Bellbird, Bellamy Farm creeks and the dammed Hunts Creek downstream of Lake Parramatta, before reaching its confluence with the Toongabbie Creek to form the Parramatta River, in the suburb of North Parramatta, in land adjoining the northern boundary of the Cumberland Hospital. The course of the creek is approximately 10 kilometres (6.2 mi); and the creek passes through the Cumberland State Forest, the Darling Mills State Forest, Bidjigal Reserve, Excelsior Park, and many smaller reserves and parks.The Darling Mills Creek is transversed by the Cumberland Highway, the M2 Hills Motorway, and marks the boundary between Windsor Road and Church Street in North Parramatta.

History
The land adjacent to the Parramatta River and its tributaries, including the Darling Mills Creek, was occupied for many thousands of years by the Burramattagal clan of the Darug people, Toongagal, Wallumattagal, Wangal, and Wategora Aboriginal peoples. They used the river as an important source of food and a place for trade.The Darling Mills Creek takes its name from a watermill constructed a short distance from the confluence with Toongabbie Creek.
An earlier watermill was built by Samuel Marsden near the confluence. It milled flour from 1804 to 1818.
In 1825, the Darling Flour Mills were built for John Raine, upstream on the Windsor Road.
The Darling Mills site was taken over by Sydney Woollen Mills, which operated from 1870 to 1975. Sydney Woollen Mills originally used steam rather than water power. Part of the facade of the building remains on the site, which was occupied by Bunnings Warehouse's North Parramatta store in the early 21st century. There is a weir on the creek nearby that was constructed in the nineteenth century.

See also
Great North Walk
Rivers of New South Wales
Passage 4:
Lansdowne River
Lansdowne River, a watercourse of the Manning River catchment, is located in the Mid North Coast district of New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Lansdowne River rises below Mount Gibraltar in the Gibraltar Range, north northwest of Upper Lansdowne, and flows generally southeast before reaching its confluence with the Northern Arm of the Manning River, near Coopernook. The river descends 740 metres (2,430 ft) over its 51 kilometres (32 mi) course.The Pacific Highway crosses the Lansdowne River south-east of Coopernook.

See also
Rivers of New South Wales
List of rivers of New South Wales (L–Z)
List of rivers of Australia
Passage 5:
Cabramatta Creek
Cabramatta Creek, an urban watercourse of the Georges River catchment, is located in the South Western Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Cabramatta Creek rises in the rural/residential suburb of Denham Court, east south-east of Leppington, within the Liverpool local government area. From here the creek flows in a northerly direction under Camden Valley Way towards Hoxton Park, and its junction with Hinchinbrook Creek. Substantial residential development has occurred in these areas, particularly to the west of Cowpasture Road. A number of detention basins have also been constructed in conjunction with the development.
The Ingham's poultry farm also occupies a significant landholding in the area. Below Hoxton Park Road, Cabramatta Creek starts to flow in an easterly direction the Fairfield local government area, towards its confluence with the Georges River, to the east of Warwick Farm. A more prominent creek "corridor", up to 200 metres (660 ft) wide, becomes more evident throughout the lower catchment. This primarily consists of public open space, playing fields and golf courses. The Elouera Nature Reserve, which is an important pocket of native bushland, also forms part of this corridor.
Cabramatta Creek flows through established residential suburbs, including Miller, Cartwright, Sadlier, Ashcroft, Liverpool, Mount Pritchard and Warwick Farm. Major transport routes that cross the catchment includes Hoxton Park Road, Elizabeth Drive, Orange Grove Road (the Cumberland Highway), the Hume Highway and the Main Southern railway line. The catchment area of the creek is approximately 74 square kilometres (29 sq mi), and within the catchment area are the Cabramatta Creek, Hinchinbrook Creek, Maxwells Creek, and Brickmakers Creek.The area around the creek was home to the Darug Aboriginal people. European settlement began on the site in the 1790s when they found good quality soil.
In the area surrounding Cabramatta Creek is a large flying fox population; located behind the Sunnybrook Motel and called the Cabrammatta Creek Flying Fox Reserve.A concrete beam road bridge that carries the Hume Highway over Cabramatta Creek, constructed in 1951 and commonly known as Ireland's Bridge, is listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register.
Passage 6:
Geographical feature
A feature (also called an object or entity), in the context of geography and geographic information science, is a discrete phenomenon that exists at a location in the space and scale of relevance to geography; that is, at or near the surface of Earth, at a moderate to global scale.: 62  It is one of the primary types of phenomena represented in geographic information, such as that represented in maps, geographic information systems, remote sensing imagery, statistics, and other forms of geographic discourse. Such representations of features consists of descriptions of their inherent nature, their spatial form and location, and their characteristics or properties.

Ontology and terminology
The term "feature" is meant to be broad and inclusive, including both natural and human-constructed phenomena. It is metaphysically neutral, including both phenomena that exist physically (e.g. a building) and those that are conceptual or social creations (e.g. a neighbourhood). In an ontological sense, the term is generally restricted to endurants, which are wholly present at any time during their lifespan (e.g., the state of New York in 1820 was a complete state, and is the same state as the New York in 2021). A feature is also discrete, meaning that it has a clear identity distinct from other phenomena, and is comprehended as a whole, defined in part by the boundary of its extent (although this can be problematic when vagueness arises, such as in the boundaries of a "valley"). This differentiates features from geographic processes and events, which are perdurants that only exist in time; and from geographic masses and fields, which are continuous in that they are not conceptualized as a distinct whole.In geographic information science, the terms feature, object, and entity are generally used as roughly synonymous. In the 1992 Spatial Data Transfer Standard (SDTS), one of the first public standard models of geographic information, an attempt was made to formally distinguish them: an entity as the real-world phenomenon, an object as a representation thereof (e.g. on paper or digital), and a feature as the combination of both entity and representation objects. Although this distinction is often cited in textbooks, it has not gained lasting nor widespread usage. In the ISO 19101 Geographic Information Reference Model and Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) Simple Features Specification, international standards that form the basis for most modern geospatial technologies, a feature is defined as "an abstraction of a real-world phenomena," essentially the object in SDTS.
Despite these attempts at formalization, the broadly interchangeable use of these English terms has persisted. That said, Phenomenon is likely the most broad, comfortably including geographic masses, processes, and events that would be difficult to call "objects" or "entities."

Types of features
Natural features
A natural feature is a phenomenon that was not created by humans, but is a part of the natural world. There has been some metaphysical debate over whether such features are "real," independent of the human mind (a realist stance), whether they are purely human conceptualizations of continuous natural phenomena (a constructivist stance), or a hybrid of discrete natural phenomena that highly motivate, but are simplified by human concepts (a experientialist stance). It is also possible that individual features may be of any of these three types.

Ecosystems
There are two different terms to describe habitats: ecosystem and biome. An ecosystem is a community of organisms. In contrast, biomes occupy large areas of the globe and often encompass many different kinds of geographical features, including mountain ranges.Biotic diversity within an ecosystem is the variability among living organisms from all sources, including inter alia, terrestrial, marine and other aquatic ecosystems. Living organisms are continually engaged in a set of relationships with every other element constituting the environment in which they exist, and ecosystem describes any situation where there is relationship between organisms and their environment.
Biomes represent large areas of ecologically similar communities of plants, animals, and soil organisms. Biomes are defined based on factors such as plant structures (such as trees, shrubs, and grasses), leaf types (such as broadleaf and needleleaf), plant spacing (forest, woodland, savanna), and climate. Unlike biogeographic realms, biomes are not defined by genetic, taxonomic, or historical similarities. Biomes are often identified with particular patterns of ecological succession and climax vegetation.

Water bodies
A body of water is any significant accumulation of water, usually covering the land. The term "body of water" most often refers to oceans, seas, and lakes, but it may also include smaller pools of water such as ponds, creeks or wetlands. Rivers, streams, canals, and other geographical features where water moves from one place to another are not always considered bodies of water, but they are included as geographical formations featuring water.
Some of these are easily recognizable as distinct real-world entities (e.g., an isolated lake), while others are at least partially based on human conceptualizations. Examples of the latter include a branching stream network in which one of the branches has been arbitrarily designated as the continuation of the primary named stream; or a gulf or bay of an ocean, which has no meaningful dividing line from the rest of the ocean.

Landforms
A landform comprises a geomorphological unit and is largely defined by its surface form and location in the landscape, as part of the terrain, and as such is typically an element of topography. Landforms are categorized by features such as elevation, slope, orientation, stratification, rock exposure, and soil type. They include berms, mounds, hills, cliffs, valleys, rivers, and numerous other elements. Oceans and continents are the highest-order landforms.

Artificial features
Settlements
A settlement is a permanent or temporary community in which people live. Settlements range in components from a small number of dwellings grouped together to the largest of cities with surrounding urbanized areas. Other landscape features such as roads, enclosures, field systems, boundary banks and ditches, ponds, parks and woods, mills, manor houses, moats, and churches may be considered part of a settlement.

Administrative regions and other constructs
These include social constructions that are created to administer and organize the land, people, and other spatially-relevant resources. Examples include governmental units such as a state, cadastral land parcels, mining claims, zoning partitions of a city, or a church parish. There are also more informal social features, such as city neighbourhoods and other vernacular regions. These are purely conceptual entities established by edict or practice, although they may align with visible features (i.e. a river boundary), and may be subsequently manifested on the ground, such as by survey markers or fences.

Engineered constructs
Engineered geographic features include highways, bridges, airports, railroads, buildings, dams, and reservoirs, and are part of the anthroposphere because they are man-made geographic features.

Cartographic features
Cartographic features are types of abstract geographical features, which appear on maps but not on the planet itself, even though they are located on the planet. For example, latitudes, longitudes, the Equator, and the prime meridian are shown on maps of Earth, but it do not physically exist. It is a theoretical line used for reference, navigation, and measurement.

Features and Geographic Information
In GIS, maps, statistics, databases, and other information systems, a geographic feature is represented by a set of descriptors of its various characteristics. A common classification of those characteristics has emerged based on developments by Peuquet, Mennis, and others, including the following : 

 Identity, the fact that a feature is unique and distinct from all other features. This does not have an inherent description, but humans have created many systems for attempting to express identity, such as names and  identification numbers/codes.
Existence, the fact that a feature exists in the world. At first, this may seem trivial, but complex situations are common, such as features that are proposed or planned, abstract concepts (e.g., the Equator), under construction, or that no longer exist.
 Kind (also known as class, type, or category), one or more groups to which a feature belongs, typically focused on those that are most fundamental to its existence. It thus completes the sentence "This is a _________." These are generally in the form of common nouns (tree, dog, building, county, etc.), which may be isolated or part of a taxonomic hierarchy.
 Relationships to other features. These may be inherent if they are crucial to the existence and identity of the feature, or incidental if they are not crucial, but "just happen to be." These may be of at least three types:
Spatial relations, those that can be visualized and measured in space. For example, the fact that the Potomac River is adjacent to Maryland is an inherent spatial relation because the river is part of the definition of the boundary of Maryland, but the overlap relation between Maryland and the Delmarva Peninsula is incidental, as each would exist unproblematically without the other.
Meronomic relations (also known as partonomy), in which a feature may exist as a part of a larger whole, or may exist as a collection of parts. For example, the relationship between Maryland and the United States is a meronomic relation; one is not just spatially within the boundaries of the other, but is a component part of the other that in part defines the existence of both.
Genealogical relations (also known as parent-child), which tie a feature to others that existed previously and created it (or from which it was formed by another agent), and in turn to any features it has created. For example, if a county were created by the subdivision of two existing counties, they would be considered its parents.
Location, a description of where the feature exists, often including the shape of its extent. While a feature has an inherent location, measuring it for the purpose of representation as data can be a complex process, such as requiring the invention of abstract spatial reference systems, and the necessary employment of cartographic generalization, including an expedient choice of dimension (e.g., a city could be represented as a region or as a point, depending on scale and need).
Attributes, characteristics of a feature other than location, often expressed as text or numbers; for example, the population of a city. In geography, the levels of measurement developed by Stanley Smith Stevens (and further extended by others) is a common system for understanding and using attribute data.
Time is fundamental to the representation of a feature, although it does not have independent temporal descriptions. Instead, expressions of time are attached to other characteristics, describing how they change (thus, they are analogous to adverbs in common discourse). Any of the above characteristics is  mutable, with the possible exception of identity. For example, the lifespan of a feature could be considered as the temporal extent of its existence. The location of a city can change over time as annexations expand its extent. The resident population of a country changes frequently due to immigration, emigration, birth, and death.The descriptions of features (i.e., the measured values of each of the above characteristics) are typically collected in Geographic databases, such as GIS datasets, based on a variety of  data models and  file formats, often based on the  vector logical model.

See also
Geographical field
Geographical location
Human geography
Landscape
Physical geography
Simple Features
Passage 7:
Coxs Creek (Belfield, New South Wales)
Coxs Creek, a watercourse of the Cooks River catchment, is located in the Inner West of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Coxs Creek rises northeast of Punchbowl railway station and flows generally north northeast, before reaching its confluence with the Cooks River, at Strathfield South. Over time the creek has been extensively modified and is now largely a storm drain that flows about 3 kilometres (1.9 mi). Prior to development of the area the creek drained paperbark swamps that were formerly near the junction of Roberts Road and Juno Parade. Over time the creek has been extensively modified and rerouted. As with most drainage channels in the area it has been lined along much of its length. Coxs Creek drains a total catchment of 8.8 square kilometres (3.4 sq mi).The creek begins as a stormwater drain, then runs in the open through the Coxs Creek Wetland, a 1.84 hectares (4.5 acres) reserve containing significant remnant bushland including some Cooks River Castlereagh Ironbark Forest habitat. Including tree specimens of mugga ironbark (Eucalyptus sideroxylon), narrow-leaved ironbark (E. crebra), broad-leaved ironbark (E. fibrosa), and tallowwood (E. microcorys). The forest habitat is noted as an endangered ecological community. Acacia pubescens (Downy Wattle) is a vulnerable flora species present as is the locally endangered Tadgell's Bluebell (Wahlenbergia multicaulis). The endangered Green and Golden Bell Frog (Litoria aurea) has been recorded and frog ponds constructed as part of the creek. The frog has not been seen in the creek since 1995, though they are still present in the nearby constructed wetlands at the Juno Parade Brick Pit.
In 2005 Sydney Ports Corporation proposed works including fauna corridors and "frog ramps" to encourage their return. Along much of its length the creek is a combination of covered channel and an uncovered concrete lined trench. As the creek passes through the reserve it is open and the 2010 management plan calls for restoration of this part of the creek and the adjacent riparian zone.
Passage 8:
Cup and Saucer Creek
Cup and Saucer Creek, an urban watercourse of the Cooks River catchment, is located in the Canterbury-Bankstown region of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Cup and Saucer Creek rises in Canterbury local government area, near Wiley Park railway station and flows in an east north-easterly direction through the suburbs of Roselands, Kingsgrove and Clemton Park, where it makes its confluence with the Cooks River, within the suburb of Earlwood. The upper reaches of the creek are a piped drainage system, which becomes part drain and part creek in the lower reaches. The Cup and Saucer Creek Catchment Management Study by the Water Board in 1992 showed extensive toxic organics in the form of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and organochlorines.The creek is so named because of sandstone formations in the former bed of the creek.A concrete culvert over Bexley Road constructed in 1920 is listed on the NSW State Heritage Register.
Passage 9:
Bardwell Creek
Bardwell Creek, an urban watercourse of the Cooks River catchment, is located in the southern suburbs of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Bardwell Creek rises in Georges River local government area, near Hurstville and flows in a north-easterly direction through the suburbs of Bexley, Bexley North, Bardwell Park, and Turrella in the Bayside local government area, where it makes its confluence with Wolli Creek, where it forms the border between the suburbs of Bardwell Park and Turrella. The upper reaches of the Creek are a piped drainage system, which becomes an open concrete channel at Croydon Road in the Bexley Golf Course. The total catchment area of Bardwell Creek is 6.36 square kilometres (2.46 sq mi).

See also
Bardwell Valley, New South Wales
Wolli Creek Regional Park
Passage 10:
Natural Dam, Arkansas
Natural Dam is an unincorporated community in Crawford County, Arkansas, United States. Natural Dam is located on Arkansas Highway 59, 6 miles (9.7 km) north-northwest of Cedarville. Natural Dam has a post office with ZIP code 72948. The now-replaced Lee Creek Bridge, which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places, was located in the community.The community was named for a natural dam near the original town site.

Notable person
Shay Mooney, half of country duo Dan + Shay
Passage 11:
Enloe Dam and Powerplant
The Enloe Dam, also known as the Similkameen Dam, and its powerplant are located on the Similkameen River about 4 miles (6.4 km) west-northwest of Oroville, Washington. Located just above Similkameen (Coyote) Falls, the concrete arch-gravity dam stands about 54 feet (16 m) high, with a crest length of about 290 feet (88 m), built between 1916 and 1923. The dam was named after the president of the Okanogan Valley Power Company, Eugene Enloe. The dam was operated to generate power at its powerplant, located about 850 feet (260 m) downstream from the dam. Lacking fish ladders, Enloe Dam blocks fish passage and completely extirpated anadromous fish migration into the upper reaches of the Similkameen River and its tributaries in Canada.

History
The dam replaced a wood crib dam started in 1903 by J.M. Hagerty, a local entrepreneur, and completed a year after his death. The dam fed a generating plant in a wooden powerplant below the dam and falls. Power went to the towns of Nighthawk and Oroville, as well as the nearby Owasco, Ivanhoe, Ruby and Canba mines. Attempts by Hagerty's estate to sell the dam in 1913 met no interest, partly because of the poor state of the crib dam. Eugene Enloe of the Okanogan Valley Power Company was able to secure the rights to the site in 1916, hiring C.F. Uhden to design the dam that year. Construction did not start until 1919 and was completed in 1920 at a cost of $350,000, $150,000 of it Enloe's money. Enloe sold the dam and powerplant in 1923 to Washington Water Power Company, which added a second penstock.

Description
The dam features an unregulated overflow spillway whose height can be augmented by flashboards. The powerplant replaced a small run-of-river plant, which received water from a diversion channel. In 1923, the site was purchased by the Washington Water Power Company. In 1942 the WWPC was purchased by the Okanogan Public Utility District, which then ceased operations at Enloe Dam in 1958, as power was available from the Bonneville Power Administration system at less cost. The dam's reservoir extends 2 miles (3.2 km) up the Similkameen River. Largely silted up, it is just 9 feet (2.7 m) deep. Storage capacity is only 507 acre-feet (625,000 m3).The concrete powerhouse is in a partly ruinous state, and options have been presented to stabilize or demolish the structure when the proposed new hydroelectric development is undertaken. The powerhouse was fed by two wood stave penstocks, 7 feet (2.1 m) in diameter, running to Pelton wheels driving two 1.6 megawatt generators. The generator hall stands next to a heavily built transformer vault.

Redevelopment
The Okanogan Public Utility District obtained a new license for power generation from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in 1983, but the license was withdrawn in 1986 because the dam's impact on anadromous fish had not been addressed. A second license for a 4.1 megawatt plant was granted in 1996, but was again rescinded on the same grounds in 2000. Yet another application was submitted in August 2008, seeking to build a new powerplant to generate 9 megawatts, fed by a new intake channel.Enloe Dam was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 18, 1978 as an example of early power development in rural Washington.
After a study showing reenergizing the dam would be too expensive, the Okanogan PUD voted in 2019 to abandon plans. They are seeking to give the dam away to have it demolished, but removal remains too expensive. The Colville Indian tribes are seeking its removal to restore salmon to the Similkameen River.
Passage 12:
Wolli Creek
Wolli Creek () is an urban watercourse of the Cooks River catchment located in the southern suburbs of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Wolli Creek rises south of Narwee, within Beverly Hills Park, Beverly Hills, and flows generally east northeast through Wolli Creek Valley and Wolli Creek Regional Park, joined by its major tributary, Bardwell Creek, before reaching its confluence with the Cooks River near Arncliffe and Tempe. The creek is a lined channel between Kingsgrove Road, Kingsgrove and Bexley Road, Bexley North where it then enters the Wolli Creek Valley. The sub-catchment area of the creek is 22 square kilometres (8.5 sq mi).

Nature conservation value
Adjacent to Wolli Creek, within the Wolli Creek Valley, is Wolli Creek Regional Park, a planned 50 hectares (120 acres) nature reserve of native bushland and public reserves that was announced by the NSW Government in 1998 as a result of sustained community campaigning for the area to be preserved and for the M5 East Freeway to go underground. Whilst some of the park has been formed and management handed over from local government authorities to the NSW National Parks & Wildlife Service, including the 8.9 hectares (22 acres) Girrahween Park and some privately held land that was compulsorily acquired, some areas of the originally planned park remain in the hands of government agencies including Sydney Water and Roads & Maritime Services.When complete, the planned nature reserve offers easy public transport access, family picnic areas, extensive views and bushland, rugged sandstone escarpments with walking tracks, a mixture of parkland, heathland, and woodland forest, and great birdwatching in close proximity to heavily developed residential and industrial landscape.

Wildlife
Bird observation
The diversity of habitat and strategic location of the Wolli Creek Valley are reflected in the wide range of bird species to be found adjacent to the creek. Approximately 175 species of birds have been recorded in the area between 1940 and 1999.

Fish
Several species of freshwater and saltwater fish can be found in the Wolli Creek in areas above and below the fish ladder. The fish ladder, or "rock-ramp fishway" was constructed to enable fish to bypass the weir at Henderson St, Turrella, allowing migration to other areas of the creek.

Coastal saltmarsh
The lower reaches – the tidal part – of Wolli Creek are home to a plant community known as saltmarsh, or coastal saltmarsh. The plant community includes various salinity-tolerant species such as Knobby Club-rush (Ficinia nodosa), Samphire (Sarcocornia quinqueflora), Sea Rush (Juncus kraussii), Seablite (Suaeda australis), Streaked Arrowgrass (Triglochin striata) and others. Coastal saltmarsh has been recognised as a carbon sink as well as a filter of nutrients maintaining water quality and is listed as an Endangered Ecological Community under the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995.

Gallery
See also
Wolli Creek Regional Park
Passage 13:
Little River (Wingecarribee)
The Little River, a watercourse that is part of the Hawkesbury-Nepean catchment, is located in the Southern Highlands region of New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
The Little River rises south southeast of the locality of Wills Hill, near Robertson, and flows generally north before reaching its confluence with the Dudewaugh Creek, a tributary of the Burke River within the Upper Nepean River catchment. The course of the river is approximately 8 kilometres (5.0 mi).

See also
List of rivers of New South Wales (L–Z)
List of rivers of Australia
Rivers of New South Wales
Passage 14:
Joe Wheeler State Park
Joe Wheeler State Park is a public recreation area with resort features located on Wheeler Lake, an impoundment of the Tennessee River in northwest Alabama. The state park contains 2,550 acres (1,030 ha) of land in three separate parcels and adjoins the Tennessee Valley Authority's Wheeler Dam.

History
The park was established when the state purchased land from the TVA in 1949. Resort features were added during a major upgrade begun in 1973. The park, the lake and dam all are named for Confederate general and U.S. Congressman Joseph Wheeler.

Awards
In September 2020, Joe Wheeler State Park was one of eleven Alabama state parks awarded Tripadvisor’s Traveler’s Choice Award, which recognizes businesses and attractions that earn consistently high user reviews.

Activities and amenities
The Rogersville area of the park includes a resort lodge, convention facilities, restaurant, campground, 140-slip marina, 18-hole golf course, and 2.5-mile (4.0 km) loop trail for hiking and biking. The TVA maintains a dam overlook near the state park's cabin area.
Passage 15:
Beaver Dam High School (Wisconsin)
Beaver Dam High School is a public high school located in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin. It is a part of the Beaver Dam Unified School District. As of 25 October 2017 it had an enrollment of 1,045 students. Its mascot is the Golden Beaver.

Extracurricular activities
Athletics
Clubs
Anime
BDHS orchestra
BDHS bands
Marching band
Jazz band 1 & 2
Pep band
Choirs
Concert choir
Treble choir
Bel Canto Choir
DECA
FFA
Forensics
Powerlifting
Mock trial
National Honor Society
Key Club
Student council
SWAZZ
Theatre

Gallery
Notable alumni
Science, media and the arts
Lois J. Ehlert – Artist, award-winning author, Caldecott Medal recipient, & Illustrator of Children’s Books
Raymond Z. Gallun – Pioneer science fiction author
Dave Krause, BSEM, UW-Madison – NASA Sounding Rocket Chief Engineer
Fred MacMurray – Actor
David Alan Smith - Actor

Business
Benjamin Murray – President of XOJET, Pittsburgh Pirates baseball draft
Gerald H. Teletzke – Business and engineer leader

Government
Robert G. Ehlenfeldt – Wisconsin State Veterinarian
Leon Epstein – Professor of Political Science, University of Wisconsin—Madison
James J. Healy – National labor relations leader, adviser to presidents Kennedy and Carter, Harvard Business School professor, lecturer, author
Robert Kastenmeier – Wisconsin Representative to U.S. Congress
Fred McFarlane – Professor in Rehabilitation Counseling, San Diego State University
Mary Ann Spellman – Two-term Beaver Dam mayor
Joseph M. Stehling – Brigadier General, recipient of Purple Heart, Legion of Merit

Professional sports
Eric Baldwin – Professional poker player and 2009 Cardplayer of the year
Madeline "Maddy" Horn – Speed skater
Bill Rentmeester – Professional football player
R.J. Shelton - Professional football player
Passage 16:
Lostock Dam
Lostock Dam is a minor rockfill and clay core embankment dam with a concrete lined, flip bucket spillway across the Paterson River upstream of the village of East Gresford in the Hunter region of New South Wales, Australia. The dam's purpose includes flood mitigation, irrigation, water supply and conservation. Mini hydro-power facilities were retrofitted in 2010. The impounded reservoir is also called Lostock Dam.

Location and features
Commenced in 1969 and completed in 1971, the Lostock Dam is a minor dam on the Paterson River, a tributary of the Hunter River, and is located approximately 65 kilometres (40 mi) from both Maitland and Singleton, and also 93 kilometres (58 mi) north-west of Newcastle, on the upper reaches of the river. The dam was built by Dumez Australia under contract to the New South Wales Water Department of Land and Water Conservation following the drought of 1964–66. At that time there was a need for a water conservation storage in the Paterson Valley to stabilise and further develop rural productivity.The dam wall height is 38 metres (125 ft) and is 701 metres (2,300 ft) long. The maximum water depth is 30 metres (98 ft) and at 100% capacity the dam wall holds back 20,220 megalitres (714×10^6 cu ft) of water at 155 metres (509 ft) AHD. The surface area of the reservoir is 220 hectares (540 acres) and the catchment area is 277 square kilometres (107 sq mi). The ungated concrete lined, flip bucket chute spillway is capable of discharging 2,860 cubic metres per second (101,000 cu ft/s).The name of the dam originates from the village of the same name, located approximately 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) downstream from the dam wall.

Power generation
A mini hydro-electric power station generates up to 2.2 megawatts (3,000 hp) of electricity from the flow of the water leaving Lostock Dam. Constructed by Heidemann Hydro Australia, the facility is managed by Delta Electricity.

See also
Delta Electricity
Irrigation in Australia
List of dams and reservoirs in New South Wales
Passage 17:
Tallebudgera Creek Dam
The Tallebudgera Creek Dam, or colloquially Tally Dam, is a decommissioned embankment dam across the upper reaches of the Tallebudgera Creek, located in the South East region of Queensland, Australia. The initial purpose of the dam from its establishment until its decommissioning during the 1970s was for the supply of potable water to the Gold Coast region. There is no public access to the dam.

Location and features
The Tallebudgera Dam is located approximately 16 kilometres (9.9 mi) south west of the Burleigh Heads.
Designed and constructed by the Coolangatta-Nerang Water Supply Board in the 1940s, construction of the Tallebudgera Dam was finalised in the early 1950s. The dam was one of the earliest water supplies for the region, and provided a constant flow to the intake that was located downstream of the dam. Growth and demand in the region led to the construction of Little Nerang Dam and Mudgeeraba Water Treatment Plant, which then made Tallebudgera Creek Dam obsolete as a water supply. The decommissioning is believed to have occurred in the 1970s and included the removal of the valve house and filling of the valve chambers. It appears that the dam was left for recreation purposes after decommissioning. Following introduction of the Water Act, 2000 (QLD), a Failure Impact Assessment noted the dam design did not comply with the latest safety standards and may over top during a 1 in 50 year average recurrence interval. The Queensland Department of Natural Resources and Water issued advice that the dam was to be upgraded to meet the current dam safety standards. Options considered were to permanently lower the level of the spillway, install flood-triggered gates and removal of the dam. In 2006, after two years of investigation, reports and public consultations, work commenced to upgrade the existing dam to the required standards.

See also
List of dams in Queensland
Passage 18:
List of crossings of the Kiskiminetas River
This is a complete list of bridges and dams that span the Kiskiminetas River from its confluence at the Conemaugh River and Loyalhanna Creek to its mouth at the Allegheny River.


== Crossings ==
Passage 19:
Toongabbie Creek
Toongabbie Creek, an urban watercourse that is part of the Parramatta River catchment, is located in Greater Western Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Course and features
Toongabbie Creek rises in the north-western suburbs of Sydney, west of the Old Northern Road, within the suburb of Castle Hill; with its headwaters forming the watershed boundary between the Hornsby Plateau and the Cumberland Plain. The creek flows generally south-west, then south by east, then south by west, then east before reaching its confluence with the Darling Mills Creek to form the Parramatta River, in the suburb of North Parramatta, in land adjoining the northern boundary of the Cumberland Hospital. The course of the creek is approximately 9 kilometres (5.6 mi).Although only a small portion of Toongabbie Creek is contained within the Blacktown local government area, much of its sub-catchment, including the Blacktown and Lalor creeks and their associated tributaries are within the City of Blacktown. In 2005, the Toongabbie Creek catchment area was rated as the highest polluting catchment out of the twenty-two catchments in Blacktown. Much of the creek is channeled in a concrete drain; and domestic garbage is often scattered along the creek's banks. Prior to April 2015, the creek was dammed at many places by fallen trees, and the rapids at Mons Road were not visible. The stagnant water in the dams was bubbly. After the rain in April 2015, which caused a flood that damaged infrastructure at Parramatta,  most of the dead trees were cleaned away and the rocks at Mons Road are now exposed.
Toongabbie Creek is transversed by the Cumberland Highway; the Westlink M7 and M2 Hills Motorway at their interchange; and the Old Windsor Road.
The land adjacent to the Parramatta River and its tributaries, including the Toongabbie Creek, was occupied for many thousands of years by the Burramattagal, Toongagal, Wallumattagal, Wangal, and Wategora Aboriginal peoples. They used the river as an important source of food and a place for trade.

See also
Rivers of New South Wales
Passage 20:
Doubtful Creek
Doubtful Creek, formerly known as Doubtful River, a watercourse that is part of the Murrumbidgee catchment within the Murray–Darling basin, is located in the Snowy Mountains district of New South Wales, Australia.
The river rises on the north western side of the Munyang Range in the Snowy Mountains at 1,660 metres (5,450 ft) and flows generally north west towards its confluence with the Tumut River at The Gulf Mine; descending 380 metres (1,250 ft) over its 15-kilometre (9.3 mi) course.

See also
List of rivers of Australia
Rivers of New South Wales