Passage 1:
Secrets of a Windmill Girl
Secrets of a Windmill Girl is a 1966 British exploitation film directed by Arnold L. Miller. It recounts the road to ruin of a young woman (Pauline Collins) who becomes involved with the striptease scene after becoming a dancer at the Windmill Theatre in London. The film features fan dances by former Windmill Theatre Company performers. It was originally released in Britain as part of a double bill with Naked as Nature Intended.

Cast
Pauline Collins as Pat Lord
April Wilding as Linda Grey
Renée Houston as Molly - Dresser
Derek Bond as Inspector Thomas
Harry Fowler as Harry
Howard Marion-Crawford as	Richard - Producer
Peter Gordeno as Peter
Peter Swanwick as Len Mason
Martin Jarvis as Mike, Windmill Stage Manager
Leon Cortez as 'Uncle Marty'

Critical reception
A reviewer in TV Guide wrote that "the premise of this film is compelling, but the treatment is empty-headed"; and The Spinning Image asked, "and those hoping for titillation? As with so much of the sexually-themed cinema of this (British) nation, they were offered it with a moralistic angle, as if telling the audience off for their prurience."
Passage 2:
Mama's Little Girl
"Mama's Little Girl" is a song by Paul McCartney & Wings that was taped in March 1972 during the Red Rose Speedway recording sessions.

Recording and performance
The final mix was made in 1987 at Air Studios in London by McCartney, co-producer Chris Thomas and engineer Bill Price.
McCartney performed "Mama's Little Girl" as part of a medley during the 1973 James Paul McCartney television special, though it was not broadcast.

Personnel
Paul McCartney - vocals, acoustic guitar, drums, electric guitar, tambourine
Linda McCartney - tambourine, backing vocals
Denny Laine - backing vocals, bass
Henry McCullough - electric guitar
Denny Seiwell - African percussion
Heather McCartney - backing vocals

Release
"Mama's Little Girl" was intended to be included on Cold Cuts, an album of outtakes which was never released.
"Mama's Little Girl" was officially issued: 

In 1990 as the B-side of the "Put It There" single & on the 2 CD Japanese version of the Flowers in the Dirt album.
In 1993 as a bonus track on the 1993 remastered CD edition of Wings' 1971 Wild Life album.
In 2018 as part of the Red Rose Speedway Archive Collection.

Track listings
This song was released as a 7" single, a 12" maxi-single, and a CD single.

7" single"Put It There"
"Mama's Little Girl"12" single"Put It There"
"Mama's Little Girl"
"Same Time Next Year"CD single"Put It There"
"Mama's Little Girl"
"Same Time Next Year"
Passage 3:
Mia Aegerter
Mia Aegerter is a Swiss musician, model, and stage and film actress.

Childhood and early career
Mia Aegerter was born on October 9, 1976 into an artist family in Fribourg, Switzerland. Her parents were members of a band, which drew Aegerter to the stage at an early age. She started working as a model and took part in many talent competitions. At a young age, she won the "Little-Prix Walo," an important talent competition for young artists in Switzerland. She also succeeded in the famous "Bravo Girl - Model Contest,“ in Germany.
At fifteen, she began to write her own songs. After a yearlong stay in America, she graduated from high-school and moved to Munich to study music, dance, and acting. After a short time, Aegerter was discovered by a talent scout and moved to Berlin, Germany.

Musical and film career
From 2000 to 2003, she became famous for starring as "Xenia di Montalban" in eight episodes of Gute Zeiten Schlechte Zeiten, the most successful daily soap opera in Germany at the time.
At the beginning of 2003, Aegerter had a breakthrough in the national music scene. Her single, "U don't know how to love me," achieved high radio-ratings and got into the Top 20 of the Swiss single charts and the Top 40 of the German single charts. Shortly after, Aegerter played the role of “Laura Moretti” in the film Achtung, fertig, Charlie, which came in second on the list of the most successful Swiss movies ever made (with over 560'000 entries at the box office as of 2011; behind Rolf Lyssy's classic "Schweizermacher" of 1978 with over 940'000 tickets sold). The film was also released in France, Germany, Italy, Russia and the USA, where it was renamed, Ready, Steady, Charlie!. Aegerter also composed and sang the film's title song, "Hie u Jetzt," which became a hit in Switzerland, reaching the Top 5 of the Swiss single charts. She received prizes and honors for her work, including the PRIX WALO in 2003, the VIVA COMET in the category of "Best of all CH Act," and the famous SWISS AWARD.
With her debut album, So wie I bi / The way I am, released in 2004, Aegerter proved that she is not only an excellent dialect singer, but very expressive with English lyrics. With the song, "Alive," she took part in the German selection to the "Grand Prix d'Eurovision". "Alive" was her fourth single release and got into the Swiss and German charts.
In January 2005, the Album So wie I bi / The way I am went gold in Switzerland.
In the same year, Aegerter played the female lead in the Swiss film, Leben auf Kredit, which also played in France and Italy. She also hosted the weekly youth magazine, Bravo TV, for one year. Bravo TV was also broadcast in Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
After many unplugged gigs in 2004-2005, she and her rock band, were a supporting-act of Ronan Keating's German Tour, which allowed them to perform on the biggest stages in the country. Aegerter also had her own Club Tour in Switzerland and played in various open-air festivals.

Other skills
Besides acting in various plays and movies in Switzerland and Germany, Aegerter's main passion remains the music and the songwriting. Her lyrics have a healthy portion of provocative irony. She takes the listeners on a journey through her thoughts and beliefs.
She extended her writing, by working for three years, as a columnist for the Neue Luzerner Zeitung, a renowned daily Swiss newspaper.

Albums
Singles
External links
Myriam Aegerter at IMDb
(in German) Official website
Passage 4:
4 Little Girls
4 Little Girls is a 1997 American historical documentary film about the murder of four African-American girls (Addie May Collins, Carol Denise McNair, Cynthia Wesley, Carole Rosamond Robertson) in the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing in Birmingham, Alabama on September 15, 1963. The film was directed by Spike Lee and nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary.The events inspired the 1964 song "Birmingham Sunday" by Richard and Mimi Fariña, which was used in the opening sequence of the film, as sung by Joan Baez, Mimi's sister. They also inspired the 1963 tune "Alabama" by John Coltrane, which is also included in the soundtrack.
4 Little Girls premiered on June 25, 1997, at the Guild 50th Street Theatre in New York City. It was produced by Lee's production company, 40 Acres & A Mule Filmworks, and Home Box Office (HBO).In 2017, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

Synopsis
A local chapter of the Ku Klux Klan placed bombs at the 16th Street Baptist Church and set them off as Sunday services prepared to commence on the morning of September 15, 1963. Four young girls, ranging in age from 11 to 14, were killed in the explosion, which also caused anywhere between 14 and 22 additional injuries. The deaths provoked national outrage, and, the following summer, the United States Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which was signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson. The bombing is marked in history as a critical and pivotal moment in the Civil Rights Movement.
The film covered the events in Birmingham, Alabama, in 1963 related to civil rights demonstrations and the movement to end racial discrimination in local stores and facilities. In 1963, Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. arrived in the town to help with their strategy and to speak at the funeral of the four young girls. People of the community met at the 16th Street Baptist Church while organizing their events. The demonstrations were covered by national media, and the use by police of police dogs and pressured water from hoses on young people shocked the nation. The large number of demonstrators who were arrested resulted in local jails filling to capacity.
The film ends with the trial and conviction in 1977 of Robert Edward Chambliss, also known as Dynamite Bob, as the main person responsible for the bombing, though he is said to have been only one of four Klan members involved. The film also references black churches being set on fire in Birmingham in 1993, giving the impression that, while progress has been made, there are some things that still have not changed.
Lee uses interviews with family and friends of the girls, government officials, and civil rights activists, as well as home movies and archival footage, to not only tell the story of the four girls' lives, but also to provide a greater historical and political context of the times.

Production
Lee first became interested in making a film about the Birmingham bombing in 1983, when he was a student at New York University. After reading a New York Times Magazine article about the incident, he was moved to write to Chris McNair, the father of Denise, one of the victims, to ask for permission to tell her story on film. McNair turned down the young, aspiring filmmaker. "I was entering my first semester at N.Y.U. So my skills as a filmmaker were nonexistent, and at that time, Chris McNair was still hesitant to talk about it," Lee said in a 1997 interview with Industry Central's The Director's Chair.  "I believe timing is everything. So it took ten years of Chris thinking about this and ten years of myself making movies for this to come together."According to McNair, he changed his mind about supporting Lee's film idea due to learning about the depth and precision of Lee's research. McNair said, "[I]t's very important that this be done accurately and correctly. In all his research, he [Lee] showed that he was objective and seeking a broad section of opinion. I'm a stickler for the facts."At first, Lee had intended to create a dramatic reproduction of the incident, but eventually, he decided that would not be the best approach, and the project became a documentary. Once he secured funding, he went to Birmingham with a small skeleton film crew, as he wanted the families be as comfortable as possible during the interviews. Sam Pollard served as a producer and the editor and Ellen Kuras was the director of photography of the film.
Lee had developed a relationship with Kuras while working on an HBO project called Subway Stories, which was an anthology of short films compiled by Jonathan Demme (though Lee's film did not make the final cut due, in part, to conflict between him and Demme). Kuras said of her desire to shoot 4 Little Girls, "I was really interested because my background is in political documentaries ... I always felt that one of the reasons that I had got into filmmaking was that I wanted to use my craft to be able to say something about the human condition, however I could, in my own humble way. For me this was an opportunity to make a small contribution."
Lee's partnership with Sam Pollard had begun on Mo' Better Blues when Pollard was recommended to replace Barry Alexander Brown, who was unavailable because he was directing his own film, as editor. Pollard originally refused the overture because he was busy working on his segments of Eyes on the Prize, but ultimately, he accepted, and he has since become one of Lee's most frequent collaborators. Their first few films together were fiction, but Pollard's background was in documentary, and he was key to guiding the structure of 4 Little Girls. He said about his role: Basically it was to help with the conception of the structure, to edit it ... We spent a lot of time screening dailies together.  We could come to 40 Acres at 7a.m., and we would spend three hours a day screening dailies for two weeks straight ... We talked, selected all the material that we liked, and I started working on the structure in the editing room.  Spike was asking if he needed narration and what the structure should be. I basically said the structure should be that there are parallels—the family, the history of the community—and then they come together on the explosion.

Reception
Critics and public
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. On Rotten Tomatoes, it holds an approval rating of 100% based on 27 reviews, with an average rating of 8.42/10. The website's critical consensus reads: "4 Little Girls finds Spike Lee moving into documentary filmmaking with his signature style intact -- and all the palpable fury the subject requires."

Box office
It was initially planned for the film to first be seen by the public when it was aired on HBO, but, after seeing the final product, the production team decided it was important to release the film in theaters before running it on television. Accordingly, 4 Little Girls opened in American theaters on July 9, 1997, and closed on October 2, 1997. It grossed $130,146 from a total of four theaters. In its opening weekend, it earned $13,528 from a single theater, which was 10.4% of its total gross. It cost approximately $1 million to make, funded by HBO.

See also
Civil rights movement in popular culture
1956 Sugar Bowl
civil rights movement
Timeline of the civil rights movement
Passage 5:
Good Little Girls (song)
"Good Little Girls" is the debut song recorded by American country music duo Blue County.  It was released in September 2003 as the first single from their debut album Blue County.  The song was written by Troy Seals and Brett Jones.

Chart performance
"Good Little Girls" debuted at number 51 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 18, 2003.

Year-end charts
Passage 6:
The King of Rock and Roll
The King of Rock and Roll is an album by Little Richard, released in 1971. It was his second album for Reprise Records. It was rereleased as part of the King of Rock and Roll: The Complete Reprise Recordings set.

Production
The King of Rock and Roll was produced and arranged by H. B. Barnum. It contains one original Little Richard song, the gospel rock "In the Name", and a new song co-written by Barnum, "Green Power", the album's single. The rest of the tracks are covers. The title track is a mock braggadocio that references Tom Jones, Elvis Presley, Ike & Tina Turner, Sly and the Family Stone and Aretha Franklin, among others. The album title and cover art were inspired by Little Richard's image in the early 1970s, when he would often appear in public wearing robes, jewelry, and a crown.

Critical reception
The album received a largely negative review in Rolling Stone, where Vince Aletti stated: "Much of the album seems designed around the Talk Show Personality rather than the Singer, giving it the sticky veneer of a jive extravaganza." Reviewing the album as part of the Reprise collection, The Austin Chronicle deemed it a "pandering covers concept."

Track listing
"King of Rock 'n' Roll" (Bradford Craig, H.B. Barnum) - 3:11
"Joy to the World" (Hoyt Axton) – 6:49
"Brown Sugar" (Keith Richards, Mick Jagger) – 3:23
"In the Name" (Richard Penniman) – 3:10
"Dancing in the Street" (Marvin Gaye, William "Mickey" Stevenson) – 5:31
"Midnight Special" (Traditional; arranged by Richard Penniman) – 4:02
"The Way You Do the Things You Do" (Robert Rogers, William Robinson) – 3:29
"Green Power" (H.B. Barnum, John "Skip" Anderson) – 3:59
"I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry" (Hank Williams) – 2:40
"Settin' the Woods on Fire" (Ed G. Nelson, Fred Rose) – 2:22
"Born on the Bayou" (John C. Fogerty) – 4:27

Personnel
Little Richard – vocals, electric pianoRest of personnel unknown, records not kept by Reprise.

Charts
Passage 7:
A Little Girl in Old Pittsburg
A Little Girl in Old Pittsburg is a novel for children set in late 18th century Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania written by the American writer Amanda Minnie Douglas (1831–1916).
It opens in 1781 with the news of Lord Cornwallis’ surrender to George Washington as it reaches the Carrick, Bradin, and Duvernay families, pioneers who live near Fort Pitt. The protagonist, Daffodil, is the "little girl" of the title, and the plot primarily is used to illustrate the domestic life of early Pittsburghers. It ends with Daffodil’s marriage and her taking leave of the city.  The novel is part of a series (e.g., A Little Girl in Old Boston, A Little Girl in Old Philadelphia) that was among the first fiction series for American girls.

See also
List of fiction set in Pittsburgh
Passage 8:
The Little Match Girl (1928 film)
The Little Match Girl (French: La petite marchande d'allumettes) is a 1928 French drama featurette film directed by Jean Renoir and starring Catherine Hessling.

Plot
The story of a frozen girl who tries to sell matches during Christmas and dreams about a toy store. The film is based on the 1845 short story of the same name by Hans Christian Andersen.

Cast
Catherine Hessling as Karen
Amy Wells as Pop
Jean Storm as Lieutenant Axel Ott
Manuel Raaby as Politieagent

See also
List of Christmas films
Passage 9:
Ugod
Ugod is a small village in the North-Western part of Hungary, in Veszprém county, near Mount Bakony and close to Lake Balaton, at the juncture of Bakony and Little Alföld. The town is a great starting point for hikers, hunters and the lovers of countryside.
Distances: Budapest (150 km), Győr (60 km), Lake Balaton (80 km), Veszprém (60 km), Pápa (15 km).

History
First written mention of the village from 1289. King László IV dated a charter during a campaign in this year. It  is supposed that the Fortress of Ugod still existed at that time but it is doubtful. Because that charter dated  "in Ugod" instead of "in Ugod fortress" or "under Ugod fortress" as usual at that time.
During Árpád Dynasty Ugod was the part of Bakony Erdőispánság. Ispán is the ruler of the territory. King Stephen V signed Csák Lukács's son Demeter and his posteriors to be forever ispán of that territory and allowed him to build fortress.
Csák family was relative to the dynasty. Their origin is from the Honfoglalás (settlement of the Magyars). Due  to Anonymus and Képes Krónika Csák was the son of Chief Előd's great-grandchild Szabolcs. From that Csák is the  family originated. That family was streamed to 12 arm. One of them called ugodi. That arm's earliest known member  was Csák Lukács. In this family the name Ugrin (means Hungarian man) was very popular. One form of that name with  diminutive -d is Ugod.
That was the name of Demeter's son or grandson, who after the village is nominated.
Jews lived in the village in the 19th and 20th centuries, dozens of whom were murdered in the Holocaust.

Sights
Roman Catholic church (former fortress)
Parish
Pieta in front of parish
Chalk-smelters around the village
Ugod Lake
Stephen I's statue
Hubertlak in the surrounding forest
Passage 10:
This Little Girl of Mine
"This Little Girl of Mine" is a rhythm and blues single written and released as a single by Ray Charles in 1955 on the Atlantic label.
"This Little Girl of Mine" played off "This Little Light of Mine", much like the previous "I Got a Woman" and the later "Hallelujah I Love Her So" played off other classic gospel hymns. Much like those songs, it replaced sacred lyrics with secular blues lyrics, featuring doo-wop call and response harmonies.
The song was the B-side to Charles' number-one R&B single, "A Fool for You", and was a charted hit on its own, peaking at number nine on the chart.
The tune was re-made to top 40 pop status in 1958 by The Everly Brothers. It should not be confused with the 1981 Gary U.S. Bonds hit "This Little Girl."
Passage 11:
Reform School Girl
Reform School Girl is a 1957 film starring Gloria Castillo as a teenage girl who is sent to a reformatory. The film was directed by Edward Bernds and was produced by Samuel Z. Arkoff.  Reform School Girl was one of many sexploitation films released by American International Pictures (AIP) during the 1950s and 1960s.  AIP's films during this period were largely focused on juvenile delinquency.  As part of the AIP formula, young girls were typically depicted as "good" or "bad", the latter of which were petty criminals, gang members, or the girlfriends of gang members.  Other AIP films in the same genre included Drag Strip Girl, Hot Rod Girl, and High School Hellcats. Reform School Girl is available for on-line viewing at AMCtv.com. The film was released by American International Pictures as a double feature with Shake, Rattle and Rock.
The film marked the acting debut of Sally Kellerman.  While filming the movie, she met Vickers and Byrnes and the three of them became lifelong friends.

Plot
Donna Price (Gloria Castillo) is picked up on a double date by Vince (Edward Byrnes). During the course of the evening she discovers that the car they are riding in is stolen. As the night unfolds, an argument ensues in the car and Vince tells the others to get out, leaving Donna as his only passenger. When she asks him if he is worried about the other couple notifying the police, Vince tells her that he would murder anybody who ever turned on him. Subsequently, the police attempt to pull Vince over for speeding. During the high speed chase, Vince strikes a pedestrian and kills him. He flees the scene leaving Donna alone in the car. Fearing for her life, she refuses to identify Vince as the car's driver. Considered a juvenile delinquent, Donna is sent to a state school for girls.

At the school, Donna attends a history class that is taught by David Lindsay (Ross Ford) who is also the school's psychologist.  Although Donna does not reveal her secret to David, he believes that she is a good person who may have been caught up in a series of bad events and that she can straighten out her life with his help.
While Donna is in the school, the police continue the accident investigation.  Vince is troubled by the event and is worried that Donna will eventually tell authorities what happened.  He develops a ruse where his girlfriend places a phone call to the police and identifies herself as Donna.  She tells the police that one of the girls in the reform school is a thief.  Eventually the other girls come to believe that Donna is a police informer. She is attacked by Roxy (Yvette Vickers) and while defending herself, Donna cuts Roxy with a pair of scissors.  Despite David's plea to conduct an investigation, the school superintendent determines that Donna is a high risk student and that she should be transferred to the state prison.  School authorities also question David's judgment, his relationship with Donna, and his ability to help students.  Vince, who is still convinced that Donna will turn him into the police, attempts to break into the school and kill her.  He fails and is apprehended.  The police and school authorities investigate the incident and as a result of the investigation David is vindicated, and Donna is exonerated and released.

Reviews
The Rotten Tomatoes provides the following narrative:

 "The inherent trashiness of Reform School Girl is redeemed by the sincere performance of Gloria Castillo and the matter-of-fact direction of Edward Bernds. Castillo plays mixed-up teenager Donna Price, who is shipped off to a girl's reformatory when she is involved in a fatal car crash. Actually, Donna is innocent, but she refuses to reveal who was driving. Only when the culprit (a pre-77 Sunset Strip Edward Byrnes) reveals himself to be a total piece of excrement is Donna able to extricate herself from her dilemma."
Movie critic Leonard Maltin has characterized the movie as a "bomb."

"Hokey time capsule about a pretty teen from the "other side of the tracks" (Castillo). After a fatal car mishap she ends up in reform school.  Will she or won't she squeal on the party responsible for her dilemma?"
Since the film's release in 1957, the theatrical movie poster, featuring blond haired Vickers fighting dark haired Castillo, has become a collector's item. "... the two girls wrestling for a pair of scissors promise anything that a teenage male, from any decade, could want." The poster has also become popular on the internet since it was used as part of an advertisement for a 2006 Scrabble tournament held in France.  The poster's slogan says, "In Scrabble anything is possible. Grand National Tournament September 23, 2006."

In popular culture
An April 21, 1977 episode of SCTV (Season 1, Episode 11) contains a satirical skit called "Broads Behind Bars" which has half of the story of the movie, but mostly contains a subplot about the smoking of marijuana making one do criminal things. The skit is featured on the DVD SCTV: Best of the Early Years.

See also
List of American films of 1957
Passage 12:
Blue County (music group)
Blue County was an American country music duo composed of actor-singers Aaron Benward and Scott Reeves. They released their self-titled debut album in 2004 on Curb Records. This album produced four singles on the Billboard country singles charts, including the No. 11 "Good Little Girls". Two more singles — "Firecrackers and Ferris Wheels" and "I Get To" — were released in 2006, although neither was included on an album.

History
Blue County was founded in 2003 by Aaron Benward (formerly of Aaron Jeoffrey) and actor-singer Scott Reeves, who had been friends for several years before the duo's foundation. Signed to Curb Records that year, the duo released their debut single "Good Little Girls". This single peaked at No. 11 on the Billboard country charts in early 2004, and was the first of four singles from their self-titled debut album, which Dann Huff produced. Also in 2004, the duo performed at the Country Music Association Music Festival.Following "Good Little Girls" was the single "That's Cool", which peaked at No. 24 on the country charts. "Nothing but Cowboy Boots" and "That Summer Song" followed in 2005, peaking at No. 38 and No. 53 respectively. The duo released their fifth single, "Firecrackers and Ferris Wheels", in 2006, although it did not chart. Their final release for Curb was the No. 51-peaking "I Get To", which like "Firecrackers and Ferris Wheels" was never included on an album. After recording two songs for the Evan Almighty soundtrack, Blue County exited the Curb label in 2007.

Discography
Studio albums
Singles
Music videos
Passage 13:
Lara Cardella
Lara Cardella (born 13 November 1969 in Licata, Italy) is an Italian writer. She is best known for her best selling novel Good girls don't wear trousers.

Career
Cardella's first book Good Girls Don't Wear Trousers (in Italian: Volevo i pantaloni), written when she was nineteen, caused a scandal in the small Sicilian community where she lived because it fiercely criticized what she perceived as the backwardness and chauvinism of contemporary Sicilian society. One commentator laeleed her Italy's Salman Rushdie. The controversy surrounding the book, as well as the young age of its author, contributed to make it a huge bestseller in Italy and the novel was translated in many languages and published across the rest of Europe, in Brazil and Korea.
A film based on the novel, titled Volevo i pantaloni, came out in 1990.
In 1991 she wrote Intorno a Laura, a novel based on an original structure which combines the traditional novel structure and that of theatrical drama, showing she was able to experiment new solutions and themes.
Fedra se ne va and Una ragazza normale followed, in 1992 and 1994 respectively, but none of them matched the enormous success of her first book.
In 1995, perhaps in the effort of renewing her success as a writer, she wrote the sequel to her first novel: Volevo i pantaloni 2.She then changed publisher, leaving Mondadori for Rizzoli. With this publisher she released Detesto il soft (1997), a dreamy novel centred on morbid sexuality, and Finestre accese (2000), her last novel so far, where the lives of the two main female characters are followed down the years through the entries in their personal journals and where Cardella addresses for the first time the theme of mafia.

Themes
Through the years Cardella has experimented various styles and narrative solutions, from the traditional novel (Volevo i pantaloni, Una ragazza normale) to the contamination between novel and drama (Intorno a Laura), from the dreamlike atmospheres of Detesto il soft to the journal (Finestre accese).
There are however some basic themes recurring in much of her work, as the main focus of the plot or lying under the surface, such as chauvinism, rape, the backward and negative aspects of Sicilian traditional society. In Una ragazza normale and Detesto il soft the subjects of sexuality and death are addressed in a fascinating morbid way. A general sense of pessimism and fatalism permeates much of her writings.

Selected works
In English
Good girls don't wear trousers, London, H.Hamilton, 1993

In Italian
Finestre accese, Milano, Rizzoli, 2000
Detesto il soft, Milano, Rizzoli, 1997
Volevo i pantaloni 2, Milano, Mondadori, 1995
Una ragazza normale, Milano, Mondadori, 1994
Fedra se ne va, Milano, Mondadori, 1992
Intorno a Laura, Milano, Mondadori, 1991
Volevo i pantaloni, Milano, Mondadori, 1989
Passage 14:
Bobby's Girl (song)
"Bobby's Girl" is a song and single written by Gary Klein and Henry Hoffman.  The original was performed by American teenage singer Marcie Blane, and became a #3 hit on the US charts.  A near-simultaneous cover by British singer Susan Maughan was the hit in the UK, coincidentally also reaching #3 on the UK charts.  Both Blane and Maughan are one-hit wonders; for both these artists, "Bobby's Girl" marked their only appearance on a national top 40 chart.

Marcie Blane version
Blane's version of the song was released in the United States in August, 1962. It has a spoken introduction and a backing refrain of "You're not a kid anymore" and was popular with the American teenage audience. It entered the charts in October and made the Top 10 within a month reaching 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 by December, where it stayed for four weeks. It reached 2 on the Cash Box chart staying on the charts for nineteen weeks and made Blane (very briefly) the top selling female singer in the US.

Chart history
Susan Maughan version
Susan Maughan's cover version was released in the UK, also in 1962. It featured Wally Stott and his orchestra and chorus. Substantially re-arranged from Blane's original, Maughan's version dropped the spoken word intro, and had a more sophisticated, less 'teen-age' sound.  It spent nineteen weeks on the UK's Record Retailer chart, peaking at No. 3.

Chart history
Other versions
In 1963 Swedish artist Lil Malmkvist made a version in German (Ariola AT 10 106).

Tracey Ullman version
In 1983 Tracey Ullman released a version of "Bobby's Girl" on the album You Broke My Heart in 17 Places and as a single. Ullman's version reached No. 45 in West Germany.

Foreign-language versions
1963 : French singer Arielle performed the French-language version Je n'aime que Bobby (I only love Bobby).
1972 : Canadian singer Mimi Hétu performed the French-language version Pardonne-moi (Forgive me).
1984 : French singer Douchka performed the French-language version Mon p'tit cœur (My little heart).
Passage 15:
Little Green (song)
"Little Green" is a song composed and performed by Joni Mitchell. It is the third track on her 1971 album Blue.

Background
Mitchell wrote "Little Green" in 1966, shortly after she had signed the papers to place her daughter for adoption the previous year, while she was a poor folk singer in Toronto.The existence of her daughter, originally called Kelly Dale, was not publicly known until 1993, when a roommate from Mitchell's art school days in the 1960s sold the story of the adoption to a tabloid magazine. However, in at least one early live performance, she mentioned her daughter’s given first name. At the Café Au Go Go in New York in 1967, there was (a reviewer later stated) "a raw, husky catch to her tender wishes for 'Kelly Green'" during the song.Mitchell commented on the situation in an interview quoted in a 1998 article: "I was dirt poor. An unhappy mother does not raise a happy child. It was difficult parting with the child, but I had to let her go." Mitchell was reunited with her daughter, Kilauren Gibb, in 1997.The guitar tuning Mitchell uses on the song is Open G (low-to-high: D G D G B D).

Critical reaction
Writing for Rolling Stone in 1971, Timothy Crouse, said:

Several of the lesser cuts on Blue give every indication of having sat in Joni's trunk for some time. The folkie melody of "Little Green" recalls "I Don't Know Where I Stand" from her second album. The pretty, "poetic" lyric is dressed up in such cryptic references that it passeth all understanding.
Reflecting on the song for The Atlantic in 2013, Jack Hamilton noted that "Little Green", arguably the most personal song on Blue, was not written about a lover but rather about Mitchell's daughter, concluding that "Blue was Mitchell's way into music that transcended her life to become about yours and everyone else's."Bob Dylan played the song on the "Colors" episode of Season 1 of his Theme Time Radio Hour show in 2007.
Passage 16:
Forrest Gump
Forrest Gump is a 1994 American comedy-drama film directed by Robert Zemeckis and written by Eric Roth. It is based on the 1986 novel of the same name by Winston Groom and stars Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson and Sally Field. The film follows several decades in the life of a slow-witted and kindhearted Alabama man named Forrest Gump (Hanks) and his experiences in the 20th-century United States. The film differs substantially from the novel.
Principal photography took place between August and December 1993, mainly in Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina. Extensive visual effects were used to incorporate Hanks into archived footage and to develop other scenes. The soundtrack features songs reflecting the different periods seen in the film.
Forrest Gump was released in the United States on July 6, 1994, and received mostly positive reviews, with critical acclaim for Zemeckis's direction, performances (particularly those of Hanks and Sinise), visual effects, music, and screenplay. The film was an enormous success at the box office; it became the top-grossing film in America released that year and earned over US$678.2 million worldwide during its theatrical run, making it the second-highest-grossing film of 1994, behind The Lion King. The soundtrack sold over 12 million copies. Forrest Gump won six Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor for Hanks, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Visual Effects, and Best Film Editing. It received many award nominations, including Golden Globes, British Academy Film Awards and Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Various interpretations have been made of the protagonist and the film's political symbolism. In 2011, the Library of Congress selected the film for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

Plot
In 1981, a man named Forrest Gump recounts his life story to strangers who happen to sit next to him at a bus stop. 
As a boy in 1956, Forrest has an IQ of 75 and is fitted with leg braces to correct a curved spine. He lives in Greenbow, Alabama, with his mother, who runs a boarding house and encourages him to live beyond his disabilities. Among their temporary tenants is a young Elvis Presley, who plays the guitar for Forrest and incorporates the boy's jerky dance movements into his performances. On his first day of school, Forrest meets a girl named Jenny Curran, and the two become best friends. Jenny is a victim of sexual abuse at the hands of her widowed, alcoholic father, but she is later removed from his custody.
Bullied because of his leg braces and dimwittedness, Forrest flees from a group of children, but when his braces break off, he is revealed to be a fast runner. With this talent, he receives a football scholarship at the University of Alabama in 1962, where he is coached by Bear Bryant, becomes a top kick returner, is named to the All-American team, and meets president John F. Kennedy at the White House. In his first year at college, he witnesses Governor George Wallace's Stand in the Schoolhouse Door and returns a dropped book to Vivian Malone Jones, one of the students admitted over state resistance. He visits Jenny at her college, where the two have an awkward sexual encounter.
After graduating from college in 1966, Forrest enlists in the U.S. Army. During basic training, he befriends a fellow soldier named Benjamin Buford Blue (nicknamed "Bubba"), who becomes a close friend and convinces Forrest to go into the shrimping business with him after their service. While on leave, Forrest goes to Memphis, Tennessee, to see Jenny, who was expelled from college for posing in Playboy in her college sweater, and now works as a singer in a strip club. However, he embarrasses her by attacking some patrons who were harassing her, causing the two to part ways. Soon afterwards, Forrest and Bubba are sent to fight in Vietnam, serving with the 9th Infantry Division in the Mekong Delta region under Lieutenant Dan Taylor. After months of routine operations, their platoon is ambushed while on patrol, and several members of the platoon are killed in action, including Bubba. Forrest saves several others, including Lieutenant Dan, who loses both of his lower legs, while Forrest is shot "in the buttocks." While recovering from his wound, Forrest develops a talent for ping pong. Taylor is embittered from having his life saved as he had hoped to die in combat like his ancestors, and detests being handicapped. Forrest is awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroism by President Lyndon B. Johnson. 
At an anti-war March on the Pentagon rally, Forrest meets Abbie Hoffman, encounters a Black Panther group, and reunites with Jenny, who has become a drug-addicted hippie and anti-war activist, but the two are soon parted again when she leaves for San Francisco with her abusive boyfriend, the president of SDS at Berkeley. Forrest plays ping-pong in the special services, competing against Chinese teams in ping-pong diplomacy, becoming a celebrity, and earns himself an interview alongside John Lennon on The Dick Cavett Show, appearing to influence Lennon's song "Imagine". Forrest spends 1972 New Year's Eve in New York City with Lieutenant Dan, who has become an alcoholic, still bitter about his disability and the government's apathy towards Vietnam War veterans. Forrest does not enjoy the company of Lt. Dan's prostitutes because of his devotion to Jenny, and rejects their advances, leading Lt. Dan to angrily throw them out for insulting Forrest. Forrest's ping-pong success eventually leads to a meeting with President Richard Nixon. He is given a room in the Watergate complex, where he unwittingly exposes the Watergate scandal.
In 1974, Forrest is honorably discharged from the Army, and returns to Greenbow, where he endorses a company that makes ping-pong paddles. He uses the earnings to buy a shrimping boat in Bayou La Batre, fulfilling his promise to Bubba. Lieutenant Dan joins Forrest as his first mate, and they initially have very little success. However, after their boat becomes the only one to survive Hurricane Carmen, they pull in vast amounts of shrimp and create the profitable Bubba Gump Shrimp Company. Lieutenant Dan acknowledges that Forrest saved him, however does not actually thank him for saving his life. Dan invests his money in early tech companies on the stock market, which Forrest mistakes for "some kind of fruit company", and the two become millionaires. Forrest gives half of his earnings to Bubba's family for having inspired the shrimping venture. Forrest returns home to his mother and cares for her during her terminal illness from cancer. After she dies, Forrest spends most of his time volunteering as a gardener at the University of Alabama.
In 1976, Jenny – recovering from years of drugs and abuse – returns to Forrest. One day, the two are walking, and come across the now-abandoned house of Jenny's father, where Jenny, in a rage, throws all the rocks she can find at it, until she collapses in anguish. After some time, Forrest proposes to her, but she turns him down, much to Forrest's dismay. That night, she confesses to Forrest that she does indeed love him. They make love, but Jenny leaves the next morning. Heartbroken, Forrest, "for no particular reason", starts running and embarks on a cross-country marathon, becoming famous for another feat. Forrest starts to garner many followers, some of whom are struggling businessmen, whom he unwittingly gives inspiration. After a total of about three years and two-and-a half months running, Forrest decides to end the run, and returns to Greenbow, much to the surprise of his followers.
In 1981, Forrest gets a letter from Jenny, asking him to visit her, and it turns out that's why he's been waiting at the bus stop. An old lady informs him that the address is only five/six blocks away, and he rushes off. Forrest again reunites with Jenny, who has quit abusing drugs, and has turned her life around. Jenny then introduces him to her young son, Forrest Gump Jr., revealing that Forrest is his father. Initially shocked at the revelation, Forrest starts to bond with his son. Jenny later tells Forrest she is sick with "some kind of virus" and the doctors can't do anything for her. The three move back to Greenbow and Jenny and Forrest finally marry. Among their wedding guests is Lt. Dan, now walking on titanium alloy prosthetics, with his fiancé, a Vietnamese woman named Susan. Jenny succumbs to her illness a year later. Forrest is deeply saddened by her death but becomes a loving, devoted father to Forrest Jr. as the two engage in activities like ping pong and fishing. Forrest also buys the land that belonged to Jenny's father and has the house demolished. Lastly, Forrest sees his son off on his first day of school.

Cast
Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump: At an early age, Forrest is deemed to have a below-average IQ of 75. He has an endearing character and shows devotion to his loved ones and duties, character traits that bring him into many life-changing situations. Along the way, he encounters many historical figures and events throughout his life.
Michael Conner Humphreys as young Forrest Gump: Hanks revealed in interviews that instead of having Michael copy his accent, he copied Michael's unique accented drawl into the older character's accent.
Robin Wright as Jenny Curran: Forrest's childhood friend with whom he immediately falls in love, and never stops loving throughout his life. A victim of child sexual abuse at the hands of her bitterly widowed father, Jenny embarks on a different path from Forrest, leading a self-destructive life and becoming part of the hippie movement in California in the 1960s and the following Me Decade's sex and drug culture of the 1970s. She re-enters Forrest's life at various times in adulthood. Jenny eventually becomes a waitress in Savannah, Georgia, where she lives in an apartment with her (and Forrest's) son, Forrest Jr. They eventually get married, but soon afterward she dies from complications due to an unnamed disease. This unknown disease was intended by Winston Groom, the author of the original novel, to be Hepatitis C, itself an "unknown virus" until defined in April 1989, although some of the makers of the film have said that they intended for the unknown disease to have been HIV/AIDS.Hanna R. Hall as young Jenny Curran
Gary Sinise as Lieutenant Dan Taylor: Forrest and Bubba Blue's platoon leader during the Vietnam War, whose ancestors have died in every U.S. war and who regards it as his destiny to do the same. After losing his legs in an ambush and being rescued against his will by Forrest, he is initially bitter and antagonistic toward Forrest for leaving him a "cripple" and denying him his family's destiny, falling into a deep depression. He later serves as Forrest's first mate at the Bubba Gump Shrimp Company, gives most of the orders, becomes wealthy with Forrest, and regains his will to live. He ultimately forgives and thanks Forrest for saving his life. By the end of the film, he is engaged to be married to his fiancée Susan and is sporting "magic legs" – titanium alloy prosthetics that allow him to walk again.
Mykelti Williamson as Benjamin Buford "Bubba" Blue: Bubba was originally supposed to be the senior partner in the Bubba Gump Shrimp Company, but due to his death in Vietnam, their platoon leader, Dan Taylor, took his place. The company posthumously carried his name. Forrest later gave Bubba's mother Bubba's share of the business. Throughout filming, Williamson wore a lip attachment to create Bubba's protruding lip.
Sally Field as Mrs. Gump: Forrest's mother. Field reflected on the character, "She's a woman who loves her son unconditionally. ... A lot of her dialogue sounds like slogans, and that's just what she intends."
Haley Joel Osment as Forrest Gump Jr.: Osment was cast in the film after the casting director noticed him in a Pizza Hut commercial. It was his debut feature film role.
Peter Dobson as Elvis Presley: Although Kurt Russell was uncredited, he provided the voice for Elvis in the scene.
Dick Cavett as himself: Cavett played a de-aged version of himself in the 1970s, with makeup applied to make him appear younger. Consequently, Cavett is the only well-known figure in the film to play a cameo role rather than be represented through the use of archival footage like John Lennon or President John F. Kennedy.
Sam Anderson as Principal Hancock: Forrest's elementary school principal.
Geoffrey Blake as Wesley: A member of the SDS group and Jenny's abusive boyfriend
Siobhan Fallon Hogan as Dorothy Harris: The school bus driver who drives Forrest, and later his son, to school
Sonny Shroyer as Coach Paul "Bear" Bryant
Grand L. Bush, Michael Jace, Conor Kennelly, and Teddy Lane Jr. as the Black Panthers
Richard D'Alessandro as Abbie Hoffman
Tiffany Salerno and Marla Sucharetza as "Cunning" Carla and "Long-Limbs" Lenore: a couple of prostitutes that Forrest and Dan spend a New Year's evening with and later turn away

Production
Pre-production and script
The film is based on the 1986 novel by Winston Groom. Both center on the character of Forrest Gump. However, the film primarily focuses on the first eleven chapters of the novel before skipping ahead to the end of the novel, with the founding of Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. and the meeting with Forrest Jr. In addition to skipping some parts of the novel, the film adds several aspects to Gump's life that do not occur in the novel, such as his needing leg braces as a child and his run across the United States.Gump's core character and personality are also changed from the novel; among other things, his film character is less of a savant—in the novel, while playing football at the university, he fails craft and gym but receives a perfect score in an advanced physics class he is enrolled in by his coach to satisfy his college requirements. The novel also features Gump as an astronaut, a professional wrestler, and a chess player.The book had a bidding war regarding an adaptation even before publication, with Wendy Finerman and Steve Tisch acquiring them by joining forces with Warner Bros., where Finerman's husband Mark Canton was president of production. Groom was paid $500,000 and also wrote the first three first drafts of the screenplay, which leaned closer to the events of the novel. After Rain Man told the story of a savant, Warner lost interest in the picture, and by 1990 the project was in turnaround. Finerman contacted Columbia Pictures, who went on reject it, while hiring Eric Roth to rewrite the script. Roth and Finerman kept in contact with Groom to ensure the script was historically accurate. Roth delivered a screenplay in 1992, which Paramount Pictures chairwoman Sherry Lansing liked enough to bring the project to her studio, who acquired the rights from Warner in exchange for the script for Executive Decision.Ivan Reitman, Penny Marshall and Terry Gilliam passed on the project before Robert Zemeckis was hired. Barry Sonnenfeld was attached to the film, but left to direct Addams Family Values.

Casting
John Travolta was the original choice to play the title role and says passing on the role was a mistake. Bill Murray and Chevy Chase were also considered for the role. Sean Penn stated in an interview having been second choice for the role. Hanks revealed that he signed on to the film after an hour and a half of reading the script. He initially wanted to ease Forrest's pronounced Southern accent but was eventually persuaded by director Robert Zemeckis to portray the heavy accent stressed in the novel. Hanks also said it took him three days to learn how to play the role, and footage from that time could not be included. Winston Groom, who wrote the original novel, describes the film as having taken the "rough edges" off the character whom he had envisioned being played by John Goodman. Additionally, Tom's younger brother Jim Hanks is his acting double in the movie for the scenes when Forrest runs across the U.S. Tom's daughter Elizabeth Hanks appears in the movie as the girl on the school bus who refuses to let young Forrest (Michael Conner Humphreys) sit next to her. Joe Pesci was considered for the role of Lieutenant Dan Taylor, which was eventually given to Gary Sinise. David Alan Grier, Ice Cube and Dave Chappelle were offered the role of Benjamin Buford Blue, but all three turned it down. Chappelle, who said he believed the film would be unsuccessful, has been reported as saying that he regrets not taking the role. Hanks was aware of Chappelle's disappointment in missing out on the part and agreed to work with him in a future movie, which ended up being You've Got Mail. Rapper Tupac Shakur also auditioned.

Filming
Filming began in August 1993 and ended in December of that year. Although most of the film is set in Alabama, filming took place mainly in and around Beaufort, South Carolina, as well as parts of coastal Virginia and North Carolina, including a running shot on the Blue Ridge Parkway. Downtown portions of the fictional town of Greenbow were filmed in Varnville, South Carolina. The scene of Forrest running through Vietnam while under fire was filmed on Hunting Island State Park  and Fripp Island, South Carolina. Additional filming took place on the Biltmore Estate in Asheville, North Carolina and along the Blue Ridge Parkway near Boone, North Carolina. The most notable place was Grandfather Mountain where a part of the road subsequently became known as "Forrest Gump Curve".

The Gump family home set was built along the Combahee River near Yemassee, South Carolina, and the nearby land was used to film Curran's home as well as some of the Vietnam scenes. Over 20 palmetto trees were planted to improve the Vietnam scenes. Forrest Gump narrated his life's story at the northern edge of Chippewa Square in Savannah, Georgia as he sat at a bus stop bench. There were other scenes filmed in and around the Savannah area as well, including a running shot on the Richard V. Woods Memorial Bridge in Beaufort while he was being interviewed by the press, and on West Bay Street in Savannah. Most of the college campus scenes were filmed in Los Angeles at the University of Southern California. The lighthouse that Forrest runs across to reach the Atlantic Ocean the first time is the Marshall Point Lighthouse in Port Clyde, Maine. Additional scenes were filmed in Arizona, Utah's Monument Valley, and Montana's Glacier National Park.

Visual effects
Ken Ralston and his team at Industrial Light & Magic were responsible for the film's visual effects. Using CGI techniques, it was possible to depict Gump meeting deceased personages and shaking their hands. Hanks was first shot against a blue screen along with reference markers so that he could line up with the archive footage. To record the voices of the historical figures, voice actors were filmed and special effects were used to alter lip-syncing for the new dialogue. Archival footage was used and with the help of such techniques as chroma key, image warping, morphing, and rotoscoping, Hanks was integrated into it.
In one Vietnam War scene, Gump carries Bubba away from an incoming napalm attack. To create the effect, stunt actors were initially used for compositing purposes. Then, Hanks and Williamson were filmed, with Williamson supported by a cable wire as Hanks ran with him. The explosion was then filmed, and the actors were digitally added to appear just in front of the explosions. The jet fighters and napalm canisters were also added by CGI.The CGI removal of actor Gary Sinise's legs, after his character had them amputated, was achieved by wrapping his legs with a blue fabric, which later facilitated the work of the "roto-paint" team to paint out his legs from every single frame. At one point, while hoisting himself into his wheelchair, his legs are used for support.The scene where Forrest spots Jenny at a peace rally at the Lincoln Memorial and Reflecting Pool in Washington, D.C., required visual effects to create the large crowd of people. Over two days of filming, approximately 1,500 extras were used. At each successive take, the extras were rearranged and moved into a different quadrant away from the camera. With the help of computers, the extras were multiplied to create a crowd of several hundred thousand people.

Reception
Box office
Produced on a budget of $55 million, Forrest Gump opened in 1,595 theaters in the United States and Canada grossing $24,450,602 in its opening weekend. Motion picture business consultant and screenwriter Jeffrey Hilton suggested to producer Wendy Finerman to double the P&A (film marketing budget) based on his viewing of an early print of the film. The budget was immediately increased, in line with his advice. In its opening weekend, the film placed first at the US box office, narrowly beating The Lion King, which was in its fourth week of release. For the first twelve weeks of release, the film was in the top 3 at the US box office, topping the list 5 times, including in its tenth week of release. Paramount removed the film from release in the United States when its gross hit $300 million in January 1995, and it was the second-highest-grossing film of the year, behind The Lion King with $305 million. The film was reissued on February 17, 1995, after the Academy Awards nominations were announced. After the reissue in 1,100 theaters, the film grossed an additional $29 million in the United States and Canada, bringing its total to $329.7 million, making it the third-highest-grossing film at that time behind only E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial and Jurassic Park, and was Paramount's biggest, surpassing Raiders of the Lost Ark. Forrest Gump held the record for being the highest-grossing Paramount film until it was taken by Titanic three years later in 1997. For 12 years, it remained as the highest-grossing film starring Tom Hanks until 2006 when it was surpassed by The Da Vinci Code. Box Office Mojo estimates that the film sold over 78.5 million tickets in the US and Canada in its initial theatrical run.The film took 66 days to surpass $250 million and was the fastest grossing Paramount film to pass $100 million, $200 million, and $300 million in box office receipts (at the time of its release). After reissues, the film has gross receipts of $330,252,182 in the U.S. and Canada and $347,693,217 in international markets for a total of $677,945,399 worldwide. Even with such revenue, the film was known as a "successful failure"—due to distributors' and exhibitors' high fees, Paramount's "losses" clocked in at $62 million, leaving executives realizing the necessity of better deals. This has also been associated with Hollywood accounting, where expenses are inflated in order to minimize profit sharing. It is Robert Zemeckis' highest-grossing film to date.

Critical reception
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 71% of 106 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 7.5/10. The website's consensus reads: "Forrest Gump may be an overly sentimental film with a somewhat problematic message, but its sweetness and charm are usually enough to approximate true depth and grace." At the website Metacritic, the film earned a rating of 82 out of 100 based on 20 reviews by mainstream critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film a rare "A+" grade.The story was commended by several critics. Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times wrote, "I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that matter I've never seen a movie quite like 'Forrest Gump.' Any attempt to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Or a dream. The screenplay by Eric Roth has the complexity of modern fiction...The performance is a breathtaking balancing act between comedy and sadness, in a story rich in big laughs and quiet truths...What a magical movie." Todd McCarthy of Variety wrote that the film "has been very well worked out on all levels, and manages the difficult feat of being an intimate, even delicate tale played with an appealingly light touch against an epic backdrop." In contrast, Anthony Lane of The New Yorker called the film "Warm, wise, and wearisome as hell." Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly said that the film was "glib, shallow, and monotonous" and "reduces the tumult of the last few decades to a virtual-reality theme park: a baby-boomer version of Disney's America."Gump garnered comparisons to fictional character Huckleberry Finn, as well as U.S. politicians Ronald Reagan, Pat Buchanan and Bill Clinton. Peter Chomo writes that Gump acts as a "social mediator and as an agent of redemption in divided times". Peter Travers of Rolling Stone called Gump "everything we admire in the American character – honest, brave, and loyal with a heart of gold." The New York Times reviewer Janet Maslin called Gump a "hollow man" who is "self-congratulatory in his blissful ignorance, warmly embraced as the embodiment of absolutely nothing." Marc Vincenti of Palo Alto Weekly called the character "a pitiful stooge taking the pie of life in the face, thoughtfully licking his fingers." Bruce Kawin and Gerald Mast's textbook on film history notes that Forrest Gump's dimness was a metaphor for glamorized nostalgia in that he represented a blank slate onto which the Baby Boomer generation projected their memories of those events.

Re-evaluation
In the 21st century, the film became negatively re-evaluated. Writing in 2004, Entertainment Weekly said, "Nearly a decade after it earned gazillions and swept the Oscars, Robert Zemeckis's ode to 20th-century America still represents one of cinema's most clearly drawn lines in the sand. One half of folks see it as an artificial piece of pop melodrama, while everyone else raves that it's sweet as a box of chocolates." On the other hand though "Despite many, often special-effects-generated laughs, and several genuinely touching moments, one wishes that Forrest Gump were a sarcastic cautionary tale about the dangers of a simple-minded, apolitical America and not the anti-intellectual, mostly conservative fantasy it is,"" in other words, the film has been criticized for its perceived conservative politics. Writing for Indiewire in 2019, Eric Kohn said: "This no-nothing white man becomes a war hero and a wealthy man simply by chugging along, participating in a country that dictates his every move. He never comprehends racism or the complexities of Vietnam; the movie portrays political activism and hippy culture as a giant cartoon beyond Forrest’s understanding, while presenting his apolitical stance as the height of all virtue." Furthermore, in a 2014 article for CNN discussing the film's reassessment, Brandon Griggs wrote of possible readings against the film "Forrest, as played by Tom Hanks, is the epitome of wholesome decency: a God-fearing, All-American football player and war hero who has no use for the counterculture movements of the late '60s. Despite an IQ of 75, he achieves fame and financial success. He's even from red-state Alabama!"In a 2014 retrospective for the film's 20th anniversary re-release, Amy Nicholson criticized the film for being apolitical, writing "Forrest doesn't kill anyone. He doesn't get PTSD. He doesn't even have a clue why he's in Vietnam. The film is so afraid to dredge up debate that when Abbie Hoffman hands Forrest the microphone at an antiwar rally, someone unplugs the speakers so we can't hear him — fitting for a movie with nothing to say." LGBTQ+ critics have criticized the "shallow" portrayal of the AIDS epidemic, one that "sidesteps the significance of the disease by erasing its mere mention". In 2015, The Hollywood Reporter polled hundreds of academy members, asking them to re-vote on past controversial decisions. Academy members said that, given a second chance, they would award the 1994 Oscar for Best Picture to The Shawshank Redemption instead.

Author payment controversy
Winston Groom was paid $350,000 for the screenplay rights to his novel Forrest Gump and was contracted for a 3 percent share of the film's net profits. However, Paramount and the film's producers did not pay him the percentage, using Hollywood accounting to posit that the blockbuster film lost money. Tom Hanks, by contrast, contracted for a percent share of the film's gross receipts instead of a salary, and he and director Zemeckis each received $40 million. In addition, Groom was not mentioned once in any of the film's six Oscar-winner speeches.Groom's dispute with Paramount was later effectively resolved after Groom declared he was satisfied with Paramount's explanation of their accounting, this coinciding with Groom receiving a seven-figure contract with Paramount for film rights to another of his books, Gump & Co. This film was never made, remaining in development hell for at least a dozen years.

Home video
Forrest Gump was first released on VHS on April 27, 1995, and on Laserdisc the following day. The laserdisc was THX certified and released without chapters, requiring the film be watched start to finish. Film magazines of the period stated this was at the request of Zemeckis who wanted viewers to enjoy the film in its entirety. It became the best-selling adult sell-through video with sales of over 12 million. 
A widescreen VHS release debuted a year later on September 10, 1996. It was released in a two-disc DVD set on August 28, 2001. Special features included director and producer commentaries, production featurettes, and screen tests. The film was released on Blu-ray in November 2009. Paramount released the film on Ultra HD Blu-ray in June 2018. On May 7, 2019, Paramount Pictures released a newly remastered two-disc Blu-ray that contains bonus content.

Accolades
Forrest Gump won Best Picture, Best Actor in a Leading Role (Hanks had won the previous year for Philadelphia), Best Director, Best Visual Effects, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Film Editing at the 67th Academy Awards. The film was nominated for seven Golden Globe Awards, winning three of them: Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama, Best Director – Motion Picture, and Best Motion Picture – Drama. The film was also nominated for six Saturn Awards and won two for Best Fantasy Film and Best Supporting Actor (Film).
In addition to the film's multiple awards and nominations, it has also been recognized by the American Film Institute on several of its lists. The film ranks 37th on 100 Years...100 Cheers, 71st on 100 Years...100 Movies, and 76th on 100 Years...100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition). In addition, the quote "Mama always said life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get," was ranked 40th on 100 Years...100 Movie Quotes. The film also ranked at number 61 on Empire's list of the 100 Greatest Movies of All Time.In December 2011, Forrest Gump was selected for preservation in the Library of Congress' National Film Registry. The Registry said that the film was "honored for its technological innovations (the digital insertion of Gump seamlessly into vintage archival footage), its resonance within the culture that has elevated Gump (and what he represents in terms of American innocence) to the status of folk hero, and its attempt to engage both playfully and seriously with contentious aspects of the era's traumatic history."American Film Institute lists

AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies – #71
AFI's 100 Years...100 Laughs – Nominated
AFI's 100 Years...100 Passions – Nominated
AFI's 100 Years...100 Heroes and Villains:
Forrest Gump – Nominated Hero
AFI's 100 Years...100 Movie Quotes:
"Mama always said life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get." – #40
"Mama says, 'Stupid is as stupid does.'" – Nominated
AFI's 100 Years of Film Scores – Nominated
AFI's 100 Years...100 Cheers – #37
AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition) – #76
AFI's 10 Top 10 – Nominated Epic Film

Symbolism
Feather
Various interpretations have been suggested for the feather present at the opening and conclusion of the film. Sarah Lyall of The New York Times noted several suggestions made about the feather: "Does the white feather symbolize The Unbearable Lightness of Being? Forrest Gump's impaired intellect? The randomness of experience?" Hanks interpreted the feather as: "Our destiny is only defined by how we deal with the chance elements to our life and that's kind of the embodiment of the feather as it comes in. Here is this thing that can land anywhere and that it lands at your feet. It has theological implications that are really huge." Sally Field compared the feather to fate, saying: "It blows in the wind and just touches down here or there. Was it planned or was it just perchance?" Visual effects supervisor Ken Ralston compared the feather to an abstract painting: "It can mean so many things to so many different people."

Political interpretations
Hanks states that "the film is non-political and thus non-judgmental". Nevertheless, CNN's Crossfire debated in 1994 whether the film promoted conservative values or was an indictment of the counterculture movement of the 1960s. Thomas Byers called it "an aggressively conservative film" in a Modern Fiction Studies article.

It has been noted that while Gump follows a very conservative lifestyle, Jenny's life is full of countercultural embrace, complete with drug use, promiscuity, and antiwar rallies, and that their eventual marriage might be a kind of reconciliation. Jennifer Hyland Wang argues in a Cinema Journal article that Jenny's death to an unnamed virus "symbolizes the death of liberal America and the death of the protests that defined a decade" in the 1960s. She also notes that the film's screenwriter, Eric Roth, developed the screenplay from the novel and transferred to Jenny "all of Gump's flaws and most of the excesses committed by Americans in the 1960s and 1970s".Other commentators believe the film forecast the 1994 Republican Revolution and used the image of Forrest Gump to promote movement leader Newt Gingrich's traditional, conservative values. Jennifer Hyland Wang observes that the film idealizes the 1950s, as made evident by the lack of "Whites Only"-signs in Gump's Southern childhood, and envisions the 1960s as a period of social conflict and confusion. She argues that this sharp contrast between the decades criticizes the counterculture values and reaffirms conservatism. Wang argues that the film was used by Republican politicians to illustrate a "traditional version of recent history" to gear voters toward their ideology for the congressional elections. Presidential candidate Bob Dole stated that the film's message was "no matter how great the adversity, the American Dream is within everybody's reach".In 1995, National Review included Forrest Gump in its list of the "Best 100 Conservative Movies" of all time, and ranked it number four on its "25 Best Conservative Movies of the Last 25 Years" list. National Review's John Miller wrote that "Tom Hanks plays the title-character, an amiable dunce who is far too smart to embrace the lethal values of the 1960s. The love of his life, wonderfully played by Robin Wright Penn, chooses a different path; she becomes a drug-addled hippie, with disastrous results."Professor James Burton at Salisbury University argues that conservatives claimed Forrest Gump as their own due less to the content of the film and more to the historical and cultural context of 1994. Burton claims that the film's content and advertising campaign were affected by the cultural climate of the 1990s, which emphasized family-values and American values, epitomized in the book Hollywood vs. America. He claims that this climate influenced the apolitical nature of the film, which allowed many different political interpretations.Some commentators see the conservative readings of Forrest Gump as indicating the death of irony in American culture. Vivian Sobchack notes that the film's humor and irony rely on the assumption of the audience's historical knowledge.

Soundtrack
The 32-song soundtrack from the film was released on July 6, 1994. With the exception of a lengthy suite from Alan Silvestri's score, all the songs are previously released; the soundtrack includes songs from Bob Dylan, Elvis Presley, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Aretha Franklin, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Three Dog Night, the Byrds, the Beach Boys, the Jimi Hendrix Experience, the Doors, the Mamas & the Papas, the Doobie Brothers, Simon & Garfunkel, Bob Seger, and Buffalo Springfield among others. Music producer Joel Sill reflected on compiling the soundtrack: "We wanted to have very recognizable material that would pinpoint time periods, yet we didn't want to interfere with what was happening cinematically." The two-disc album has a variety of music from the 1950s–1980s performed by American artists. According to Sill, this was due to Zemeckis' request, "All the material in there is American. Bob (Zemeckis) felt strongly about it. He felt that Forrest wouldn't buy anything but American."The soundtrack reached a peak of number 2 on the Billboard album chart. The soundtrack went on to sell twelve million copies, and is one of the top selling albums in the US. The Oscar-nominated score for the film was composed and conducted by Alan Silvestri and released on August 2, 1994.

Adaptations
Novel-sequel
The screenplay for the sequel was written by Eric Roth in 2001. It is based on the original novel's sequel, Gump and Co., written by Winston Groom in 1995. Roth's script begins with Forrest sitting on a bench waiting for his son to return from school. After the September 11 attacks, Roth, Zemeckis, and Hanks decided the story was no longer "relevant." In March 2007, however, it was reported Paramount producers took another look at the screenplay.On the first page of the sequel novel, Forrest Gump tells readers "Don't never let nobody make a movie of your life's story," and "Whether they get it right or wrong, it doesn't matter." The first chapter of the book suggests the real-life events surrounding the film have been incorporated into Forrest's storyline, and that Forrest got a lot of media attention as a result of the film. During the course of the sequel novel, Gump runs into Tom Hanks and at the end of the novel in the film's release, includes Gump going on The David Letterman Show and attending the Academy Awards.

Remake
The Indian film Laal Singh Chaddha, released in August 2022 and starring Aamir Khan in the title role, is an official remake of Forrest Gump, set in India between the late 1970s and the 2010s. The film was directed by Advait Chandan and produced by Aamir Khan Productions, Viacom18 Studios and Paramount Pictures.

See also
List of American football films
List of films about the sport of athletics