Passage 1:
Broward Correctional Institution
The Broward Correctional Institution (BCI) was a correctional facility located in the former Country Estates CDP and in Southwest Ranches, Florida, operated by the Florida Department of Corrections. The Region IV Correctional Facility Office is located on the grounds of Broward Correctional Institution in the former Country Estates CDP. The prison was in proximity to Pembroke Pines. It was located along Sheridan Street, near U.S. Route 27.The facility was opened in 1977 to house a male inmate population. However, in its history the prison has had only female inmates. It housed female death row inmates until February 2003 when the female death row was moved to Lowell Annex. The Broward Correctional Institution served as a reception center for female inmates. As of 2011, a staff of approximately 272 individuals serviced the facility. As of 2012 624 prisoners, all female, were housed there. The facility was closed in 2012. Closure was scheduled for May 1 of that year. The Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel said "BCI was determined to have a relatively low population and a high per diem inmate cost of $111.48." ($145.02 when adjusted for inflation)

Notable inmates
Death row:

Judy Buenoano
Aileen Wuornos
Passage 2:
Shooter (TV series)
Shooter is an American drama television series based on the 2007 film of the same name and the first three novels in the Bob Lee Swagger series by Stephen Hunter. The show stars Ryan Phillippe in the lead role of Swagger, a retired United States Marine Corps Scout Sniper from MARSOC living in seclusion who is coaxed back into action after learning of a plot to kill the President. USA Network picked up the pilot in August 2015 and ordered the series in February 2016.The series was originally set to premiere on July 19, 2016, but it was postponed to July 26 due to the July 7 Dallas police officer shootings. USA pulled it entirely after the Baton Rouge police officer shootings on July 17. On October 3, 2016, USA announced that the new premiere date for Shooter would be November 15, 2016. On December 19, 2016, the series was renewed for a second season that premiered on July 18, 2017. On December 4, 2017, the series was renewed for a third season.On August 15, 2018, USA Network canceled Shooter after three seasons, and its final episode aired on September 13, 2018.

Cast and characters
Main
Ryan Phillippe as Bob Lee Swagger, a highly trained, retired Marine Gunnery Sergeant and MARSOC Scout Sniper
Shantel VanSanten as Julie Swagger, Bob Lee's wife
Cynthia Addai-Robinson as Nadine Memphis, an FBI agent investigating Swagger
Omar Epps as Isaac Johnson, a Secret Service Agent who is also a former Marine Captain and was Swagger's commanding officer in MARSOC
Eddie McClintock as Jack Payne, a figure involved in the conspiracy against Swagger (season 1; guest, season 3)
Josh Stewart as Solotov, a Chechen master sniper with whom Bob Lee has tangled before (seasons 2–3)
Jesse Bradford as Harris Downey, a D.C. staffer who was once involved with Nadine (recurring, season 2; main, season 3)
Gerald McRaney as Red Bama Sr., owner of Bama Cattle and an Undersecretary in the Department of Agriculture (season 3)

Recurring
David Andrews as Sam Vincent, Bob Lee's close friend and lawyer. (season 1, 3)
David Marciano as Howard Utey, Nadine Memphis' superior at the FBI (season 1)
Lexy Kolker as Mary Swagger, Bob Lee's and Julie's daughter
William Fichtner as Rathford O'Brien, Bob Lee's former shooting instructor
Tom Sizemore as Hugh Meachum, a CIA black ops operative with mysterious motives (season 1)
Rob Brown as Donny Fenn, Swagger's best friend and spotter who was killed by Solotov (seasons 1–2)
Sean Cameron Michael as Grigory Krukov, a Russian FSB agent (season 1)
Delaina Mitchell as Anna Wallingford, Julie's married sister and Mary's aunt (season 1, 3)
David Chisum as Jim Wallingford, Anna's husband and Julie's brother in law (season 1)
Michelle Krusiec as Lin Johnson, Isaac's loyal wife (season 1-2)
Matt Shallenberger as John Wheeler, a mysterious and deadly Atlas operative (guest: season 1, recurring: season 3)
Desmond Harrington as Lon Scott, the CEO of Anhur Dynamics (season 1)
Beverly D'Angelo as Patricia Gregson, a former National Security Advisor
Jerry Ferrara as Kirk Zehnder, a former marine who always detects a conspiracy and is part of the core team of Bob Lee Swagger (season 2)
Todd Lowe as Colin Dobbs, a former marine in Swagger's unit, now living in Texas an hour from the Swagger Ranch (season 2)
Patrick Sabongui as Yusuf Ali, a core member of Swagger's original Marine team (season 2)
Jaina Lee Ortiz as Angela Tio, an active duty Marine who formerly served with Bob Lee's unit (season 2)
John Marshall Jones as Sheriff Brown, the local law enforcement in Bob Lee's hometown and a long-time friend (season 2–3)
Harry Hamlin as Sen. Addison Hayes, a mysterious and powerful mastermind whose agenda will collide with Swagger (seasons 2–3)
Troy Garity as Jeffrey Denning, a seasoned investigative journalist who cares deeply about justice being served (season 2)
Derek Phillips as Earl Swagger, Bob Lee's father, a Vietnam veteran who was sheriff in Bob Lee's hometown before he was killed in 1988 (season 3)
Tait Blum as Young Bob Lee (season 3)
Conor O'Farrell as Rick Culp, a West Texas prison guard who may have been involved in Earl Swagger's death (season 3)
Eric Ladin as Red Bama Jr., Red Sr's screw-up of a son who desperately wants his father's respect and confidence (season 3)
Brian Letscher as Bert Salinger, an employee of Red Bama Sr. who watches over Red Jr. (season 3)
Felisha Terrell as Carlita Cruise, a former Atlas operative embedded in the Dept. of Agriculture who helps Nadine and Isaac take down her former employers (season 3)
Mallory Jansen as Margo, an Agent for the Department of Justice who has been attempting to bring down Atlas for years (season 3)
Kurt Fuller as Andrew Gold, the Deputy Chief of Staff to the U.S. President and high ranking Atlas member (season 3)
Dee Wallace as Katherine Mansfield, the long-time former mission planner for Atlas who is now forced to reside in a mental institution (season 3)
Michael O'Neill as Ray Brooks, a Federal judge nominated for a vacancy on the U.S. Supreme Court and Atlas operative (season 3)

Production
On July 6, 2016, while filming a scene at Agua Dulce Airpark, actor Tom Sizemore accidentally ran over a stuntman. Sizemore was supposed to enter the Cadillac Escalade and stay there until the scene ended, but the stunt coordinator told him to pull out, not realizing that the stuntman was behind him.On July 26, 2017, the second-season episode order was cut back from the planned ten episodes to the eight episodes already filmed after Ryan Phillippe broke his leg on July 16, 2017, in an incident unrelated to the series.About the cancellation, Omar Epps said: “That was all backdoor politics. It had nothing to do with the numbers. Me and Ryan [Phillippe] had a great time. We were like kids in a candy store. We used to laugh every day we showed up to work, like, 'We're kids again!' We just get to run and jump, push, punch. You know, stuff that little boys do. It was like playing in the playground in the sandbox. I had a great, great time on that show. I have a lot of respect for John Hlavin, who's a showrunner on there. And like I said, Ryan and I got cool and had a great time on that show. That was just the backdoor politics.“

Episodes
Season 1 (2016–17)
Based on the novel Point of Impact by Stephen Hunter.

Season 2 (2017)
Based on the novel Time to Hunt by Stephen Hunter.

Season 3 (2018)
Based on the novel Black Light by Stephen Hunter.

Broadcast
Shooter aired on Thursdays at 10:00 pm on USA Network. The episodes are approximately 43 minutes, and are broadcast in both high- and standard definition. In addition, the streaming service Netflix started to broadcast the series in certain regions worldwide, the first season weekly on November 15, 2016, with a one-day delay with respect to the original United States broadcast.

Reception
Shooter received mixed reviews from critics. On the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the series has an approval rating of 47% based on 17 reviews, with an average rating of 5.75/10. The site's critical consensus reads: "Ryan Phillippe's efforts aren't enough to salvage Shooter, a tedious, under-developed drama that lacks an original voice or perspective." On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating, the series has a score 60 out of 100, based on 11 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".

Ratings
Season 1 (2016–17)
Season 2 (2017)
Season 3 (2018)
Passage 3:
Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Brisbane
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Brisbane is a Latin Church metropolitan archdiocese of the Catholic Church in Australia located in Brisbane and covering the South East region of Queensland, Australia.
Part of the Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Brisbane, the region covered was initially administered by the Archdiocese of Sydney. In 1859 the Diocese of Brisbane was erected, and elevated as an archdiocese in 1887. The archdiocese is the metropolitan of the suffragan dioceses of Cairns, Rockhampton, Toowoomba and Townsville.
The Cathedral of St Stephen is the seat of the Catholic Archbishop of Brisbane. On 12 May 2012 Mark Coleridge was installed as the sixth Archbishop of Brisbane, the seventh Bishop of Brisbane.

History
The Diocese of Brisbane was established in 1859, with responsibility for the entire state of Queensland. Prior to its establishment, Queensland was part of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Sydney.On 27 January 1877 Pope Pius IX excised the northern part of the Diocese of Brisbane from Cape Hinchinbrook and then west to the border with South Australia (now Northern Territory) to create the Vicariate Apostolic of Queensland (later the Diocese of Cairns.On 29 December 1882, the Diocese of Rockhampton was excised from the Archdiocese of Brisbane. The new Rockhampton diocese had responsibility for northern Queensland while the Brisbane archdiocese retained responsibility for southern Queensland.In 1929, the Diocese of Toowoomba was excised from the Archdiocese of Brisbane.

Bishops
Ordinaries
The following people have been appointed as Roman Catholic Archbishops of Brisbane or any of its precursor titles:
Coadjutors are included in the table above.

Auxiliary bishops
CurrentTim Norton SVD (2022–present)FormerHenry Joseph Kennedy † (1967–1971), appointed [[Roman Catholic Bishop of Armidale|Bishop of Armidale]]
John Joseph Gerry † (1975–2003)
Eugene James Cuskelly, M.S.C. † (1982–1996)
Michael Ernest Putney † (1995–2001), appointed Bishop of Townsville
Brian Vincent Finnigan (2002–2015)
Joseph John Oudeman, O.F.M. Cap. (2002–2017)
Kenneth Howell (2017–2023), appointed Bishop of Toowoomba

Other priests of the diocese who became bishops
James Byrne †, appointed Bishop of Toowoomba in 1929
Andrew Gerard Tynan †, appointed Bishop of Rockhampton in 1946
Edward John Doody †, appointed Bishop of Armidale in 1948
John Ahern Torpie †, appointed Bishop of Cairns in 1967
Brian Heenan, appointed Bishop of Rockhampton in 1991
James Foley, appointed Bishop of Cairns in 1992
William Martin Morris, appointed Bishop of Toowoomba in 1992
Michael Fabian McCarthy, appointed Bishop of Rockhampton in 2014
Anthony Randazzo, appointed an Auxiliary Bishop of Sydney in 2016
Timothy James Harris, appointed Bishop of Townsville in 2017
† = deceased

Cathedral
The gothic revival cathedral is located on a site bounded by Elizabeth, Charlotte and Edward Streets, in the Australian city of Brisbane. Built between 1864 and 1922, with extensions made in 1989, the cathedral was established with James Quinn as its first bishop. Quinn planned to construct a large cathedral to accommodate a growing congregation.  On 26 December 1863, the Feast of St Stephen, Quinn laid the foundation stone for a grand cathedral designed by Benjamin Backhouse. Backhouse's original design was changed and downsized numerous times over the course of the cathedral's completion, mainly for economic reasons.
In 1927, there was a plan to replace St Stephen's with a new Holy Name Cathedral to be built in Fortitude Valley, Brisbane. However, funding was only sufficient to build the crypt. Eventually the project was abandoned, the crypt demolished and the land sold.

Parishes
Economic contribution
The Archdiocese contributes around $2.5 billion to the economy through its schools and other institutions, providing employment to 22,000 people.The Archdiocese manages 98 parishes and 144 Catholic schools. It also provides services to 12,992 aged care and disability clients, support for 8362 seniors to live at home, support to 23,000 victims of domestic violence and help for 4,000 people with mental illness.

See also
Roman Catholicism in Australia
Passage 4:
Lindhorst railway station
Lindhorst is a railway station located in Lindhorst, Germany. The station is located on the Hannover to Minden railway. The train services are operated by Deutsche Bahn as part of the Hanover S-Bahn. Lindhorst is served by the S1.

Train services
The following services currently call at Lindhorst:
Passage 5:
Take Me Home, Country Roads
"Take Me Home, Country Roads", also known simply as "Country Roads", is a song written by Bill Danoff, Taffy Nivert and John Denver. It was released as a single performed by Denver on April 12, 1971, peaking at number two on Billboard's US Hot 100 singles for the week ending August 28, 1971. The song was a success on its initial release and was certified Gold by the RIAA on August 18, 1971, and Platinum on April 10, 2017. The song became one of John Denver's most popular songs. It has continued to sell, with over 1.6 million digital copies sold in the United States.The song is considered a symbol of West Virginia. In March 2014, it became one of the four official state anthems of West Virginia. In 2023, the song was selected by the Library of Congress for inclusion in the National Recording Registry.

Composition
Inspiration for the title line had come while Taffy Nivert and Bill Danoff, who were married, were driving along Clopper Road in Montgomery County, Maryland to a gathering of Nivert's family in Gaithersburg, with Nivert behind the wheel while Danoff played his guitar. "I just started thinking, country roads, I started thinking of me growing up in western New England and going on all these small roads," Danoff said. "It didn't have anything to do with Maryland or anyplace."To Danoff, the lyric "(t)he radio reminds me of my home far away" in the bridge is quintessentially West Virginian, an allusion to when he listened to the program Saturday Night Jamboree, broadcast from Wheeling, West Virginia, on WWVA at his home in Springfield, Massachusetts during his childhood in the 1950s.Danoff was influenced by friend and West Virginian actor Chris Sarandon and members of a West Virginia commune who attended Danoff's performances. Of the commune members, Danoff remarked, "They brought their dogs and were a very colorful group of folks, but that is how West Virginia began creeping into the song." While the song was inspired by Danoff's upbringing in Springfield, Massachusetts, he "didn't want to write about Massachusetts because [he] didn't think the word was musical."Starting December 22, 1970, Denver was heading the New Year's bill at The Cellar Door, with Fat City opening for him, just as Denver had opened at the same club for then-headliner David Steinberg. After the club's post-Christmas reopening night on Tuesday, December 29 (Cellar Door engagements ran from Tuesday to Sunday, and this booking was for two weeks), the three returned to the couple's apartment for an impromptu jam. On the way, Denver's left thumb was broken in a collision. He was rushed to the emergency room, where the thumb was splinted. When they returned to the apartment, Denver said he was "wired, you know."When Danoff and Nivert ran through what they had of the song they had been working on for about a month, planning to sell to Johnny Cash, Denver "flipped". He decided he had to have it, prompting them to abandon plans for the sale. The verses and chorus were still missing a bridge, so the three of them went about finishing.
Nivert got out an encyclopedia to learn more about West Virginia. The first thing she encountered was the Rhododendron, the state flower, so she kept trying to work the word Rhododendron into the song. Rhododendron was the title that Nivert had written down on the lyric sheet, which they later sent to ASCAP. The three stayed up until 6:00 a.m., changing words and moving lines around.When they finished, on the morning of Wednesday, December 30, 1970, Denver announced that the song had to go on his next album. Later that night, during Denver's first set, Denver called his two collaborators back to the spotlight, where the trio changed their career trajectories, reading the lyrics from a single, handheld, unfolded piece of paper. According to Len Jaffe, a Washington, D.C.-based singer-songwriter who attended the show where Denver premiered the song, this resulted in a five-minute standing ovation. The next day was Denver's 28th birthday. They recorded it in New York City in January 1971.
"Take Me Home, Country Roads" is written in a Key of A major and composed in a tempo of 82 beats per minute per common time.

Commercial performance and legacy
"Take Me Home, Country Roads" appeared on the LP Poems, Prayers & Promises and was released as a 45 in the spring of 1971. Original pressings credited the single to "John Denver with Fat City". It broke nationally in mid-April but moved up the charts very slowly. After several weeks, RCA Records called John and told him they were giving up on the single. His response: "No! Keep working on it!" They did, and the single went to number 1 on the Record World Pop Singles Chart and the Cash Box Top 100, and number 2 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, topped only by "How Can You Mend a Broken Heart" by The Bee Gees.
On August 18, 1971, it was certified Gold by the RIAA for a million copies shipped. The song continued to sell in the digital era. As of January 2020, the song has also sold 1,591,000 downloads since it became available digitally.Denver's recording of "Take Me Home, Country Roads" was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the National Recording Registry in 2023.

Reception in West Virginia
"Take Me Home, Country Roads" received an enthusiastic response from West Virginians. On November 1, 2017, the West Virginia Tourism Office announced it had obtained the rights to use "Take Me Home, Country Roads", in its marketing efforts. "'Country Roads' has become synonymous with West Virginia all over the world," said West Virginia Tourism Commissioner Chelsea Ruby. "It highlights everything we love about our state: scenic beauty, majestic mountains, a timeless way of life, and most of all, the warmth of a place that feels like home whether you've lived here forever or are just coming to visit." The opening phrase of the song, "Almost heaven", became a primary tourism office slogan.The song is the theme song of West Virginia University, and it has been performed during every home football pregame show since 1972. The song is played for other athletic events and university functions, including after football games, for which the fans are encouraged to stay in the stands and sing the song along with the team. On September 6, 1980, at the invitation of West Virginia Governor Jay Rockefeller, songwriters Danoff, Nivert, and Denver performed the song during pregame festivities to a sold-out crowd of Mountaineer fans. This performance marked the dedication of the current West Virginia University Mountaineer Field and the first game for head coach Don Nehlen.The popularity of the song inspired resolutions in the West Virginia Legislature to adopt "Take Me Home, Country Roads" as an official state song. On March 7, 2014, the West Virginia Legislature approved a resolution to make "Take Me Home, Country Roads" an official state song of West Virginia, alongside three other pieces: "West Virginia Hills", "This Is My West Virginia", and "West Virginia, My Home Sweet Home". Governor Earl Ray Tomblin signed the resolution into law on March 8, 2014.The song was played at the funeral for West Virginia Senator Robert Byrd at the state capitol in Charleston, West Virginia on July 2, 2010.The Mountain State Brewing Company based in Thomas, West Virginia, produces an amber ale named "Almost Heaven", which it says is "named after John Denver's ode to West Virginia, 'Country Roads'".

Personnel
John Denver – vocals, 6- & 12-string acoustic guitar
Bill Danoff – backing vocals
Taffy Nivert – backing vocals
Eric Weissberg – banjo, steel guitar
Mike Taylor – acoustic guitar
Richard Kniss – double bass
Gary Chester – drums, percussion

Charts
Certifications
Cover versions
Hermes House Band version
Dutch pop band Hermes House Band covered the song and released it as "Country Roads". This version was first released in Germany on May 21, 2001, and was issued in the United Kingdom on December 3, 2001, where it was a contender for the 2001 Christmas number-one single. This version was a chart success in Europe, reaching number one in Scotland, number two in Germany and Ireland, and the top 10 in Austria, Denmark, and the United Kingdom.

Track listings
Charts
Certifications
Olivia Newton-John version
Olivia Newton-John released a cover version in January 1973 that reached number 6 in Japan and number 15 in the UK. It was the lead single from her third studio album, Let Me Be There. This version, as well as the song itself, features prominently in the Japanese animated film, Whisper of the Heart.

Fallout 76 version
A cover version of the song, a collaboration between Copilot Music and Sound and the vocal group Spank, was commissioned for and featured in both the teaser and full E3 2018 trailers for the 2018 video game Fallout 76, with its plot events are set in West Virginia. Released as an iTunes-only single on July 4, 2018, the song reached No. 1 on the iTunes singles chart. It debuted at No. 41 on Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart that week and at No. 21 on Billboard's Country Digital Songs the following week. The official YouTube upload of the original John Denver recording, initially uploaded in 2013, would later edit its description in response to the song's use for the game. In Australia, a promotional Fallout 76 vinyl featuring the cover was included with the December 2018 issue of STACK Magazine exclusively from retailer JB Hi-Fi.

Forever Country
The song found further chart success as part of the Forever Country medley and video, created in 2016 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Country Music Association Awards.
Passage 6:
Khong Island
Khong Island or Don Khong (Lao: ດອນໂຂງ) is the largest island and the seat of administration in the Si Phan Don riverine archipelago located in the Mekong River, Khong District, Champasak Province, southern Laos.
The island is 18 kilometers (11 mi) long (north-south), and 8 kilometers (5.0 mi) at its widest point. Its population is mainly concentrated in the two villages Muang Saen (west) and Muang Khong (east); the latter is the de facto capital of the island as well as the regional seat of government. There are 19 villages on the island and the main source of income comes from fishing. 
The former President of Laos, Khamtai Siphandon, has a residence on the island, which is a possible explanation for the  high quality of its infrastructure, such as asphalted roads and electricity. Locals tend to travel on longtail boats.
Passage 7:
John Phan
Bon "John" Phan (born October 10, 1974, in Da Nang, Vietnam) is a Vietnamese-American professional poker player based in Stockton, California, who is a two-time World Series of Poker bracelet winner and is a winner and four-time final tablist of World Poker Tour Championships.

World Series of Poker
Phan has made numerous World Series of Poker (WSOP) money finishes, including the final table of the $5,000 Seven-card stud event in 2005, finished fourth and outlasted both professional poker players Dave Colclough and Rob Hollink.At the 2006 WSOP, Phan finished second in the $1,000 No-Limit Hold'em event when his Q♠ 5♠ failed to improve against Jon Friedberg's A♥ 7♥ on a board of 10♥ 9♦ 3♠ 2♥ 7♠. Phan earned $289,389 for his runner-up finish the next year at the 2007 World Series of Poker Phan was runner-up to Francois Safieddine in the $2,500 No Limit Hold'em event, earning $330,846 but it was not until the 2008 World Series of Poker that Phan won his first bracelet after winning the $3,000 No-Limit Hold'em event, earning $434,789 and then he won his second bracelet the same year, this time in the $2,500 2-7 Triple Draw event, earning $151,896. Phan cashed for a total of $608,464 at the 2008 WSOP.

World Series of Poker bracelets
World Poker Tour
Phan cashed eleven times on the World Poker Tour (WPT) making the final table in four of them,  one was at the $25,000 WPT Championship of season 3, receiving $518,920 for finishing in fourth place above Hollink, Phil Ivey, Joe Beevers, Chris Ferguson and Juha Helppi. and the other was at the $9,600 No Limit Hold'em WPT season 6 event at the 2008 Bay 101 Shooting Stars where he finished 6th, earning $135,000. In July 2008, Phan made another WPT final table finishing in fifth place at the Bellagio Cup IV, earning $193,915On the WPT seventh season, Phan won his first WPT title after defeating well known online player Amit "Amak316″ Makhija during heads-up play, winning the WPT bracelet and over $1.1 million at the Legends of Poker held at The Bicycle Casino in Bell Gardens, California.

Other poker events

Phan won two events at The Fifth Annual Jack Binion World Poker Open in 2004, the $500 Limit Hold'em event, earning $160,965 and $500 Pot Limit Hold'em event, earning $85,257 also cashing three other times at that same event. He later won the $3,000 No Limit Hold'em event at the Festa al Lago II in 2004, earning $189,900. He won the $2,425 No Limit Hold'em event at the 2005 L.A. Poker Classic, earning $300,578 and was runner-up to Marcel Lüske in the $3,000 No Limit Hold'em event at the Fourth Annual Five-Star World Poker Classic in 2006, earning $179,195.As of 2017, his total live tournament winnings exceed $5,525,000. His 29 cashes as the WSOP account for over $1,450,000 of those winnings.He was the Cardplayer Magazine 2008 Player of the Year with 6,704 points as well as 2008 Bluff Magazine Player of the Year.


== Notes ==
Passage 8:
Icaria Planum
Icaria Planum is a region on Mars in the Thaumasia quadrangle of Mars that is 566.59 km across and is located at 43.27 S and 
253.96E.  It was named after a classic albedo feature that was approved in 1979.  The name of the classic feature was based on the land where according to greek mythology, Icarus died (Icaria).

See also
HiRISE
HiWish program
Latitude dependent mantle
Thaumasia quadrangle
Passage 9:
Muang Kham, Chiang Rai
Muang Kham (Thai: ม่วงคำ) is a village and tambon (subdistrict) of Phan District, in Chiang Rai Province, Thailand. In 2005 it had a total population of 8837 people. The tambon contains 17 villages.
Passage 10:
Dići
Dići is a village situated in Ljig municipality in Serbia. The town is known for having a medieval church dedicated to St. John, and being the burial place of 14th-century nobleman Vlgdrag.
Passage 11:
Phan Huy Quát
Phan Huy Quát (Hà Tĩnh Province, 12 June 1908 – 27 April 1979) was a South Vietnamese doctor and politician who served as Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam for four months in 1965.

Early life
Phan Huy Quát was born in Lộc Hà District in Hà Tĩnh Province. He attended the Lycée Pellerin, Huế, then studied medicine in Hanoi and qualified as a doctor before entering politics.
On 1 July 1949, Quát was appointed Minister of Education by Head of State Bảo Đại. On 22 January 1950, Prime Minister Nguyễn Phan Long appointed Quát Minister of Defense, at which position he had only served briefly before the Cabinet was re-organized and he returned to working for the Đại Việt Quốc dân đảng.
In June 1953, Prime Minister Nguyễn Văn Tâm appointed Quát Minister of Defense. Quát would be in this position until 1954 when Prince Bửu Lộc became Prime Minister who appointed Quát Special Minister in charge of the democratization process for Vietnam. Dr. Quát then served briefly as an interim Prime Minister until Bảo Đại appointed Ngô Đình Diệm to the position.
In April 1960, Quát signed the Caravelle Manifesto, a list of grievances and demands specifically critical of Diệm, and was promptly jailed by the GVN. After Diệm's assassination in October 1963, Quát was appointed Foreign Minister by Major General Nguyễn Khánh, one of the principal participants in the bloody coup. Though Quát frequently criticized Khánh's self-serving rule, he remained in Khánh's cabinet until November 1964, when Trần Văn Hương was installed as Prime Minister of General Khánh's freshly created High National Council (HNC).On 16 February 1965, the Armed Forces Council, a group of South Vietnamese military officers who took over when General Khánh deposed Hương and the HNC, secured Quát's appointment to Prime Minister in order to foil a power grab by the junta chief Khánh, who intended to install the economist Nguyễn Xuân Oánh as his puppet in the Prime Minister post. Khánh himself was forced to step down after a coup on 19/20 February and was subsequently exiled. Air Marshal Nguyễn Cao Kỳ then led the junta that oversaw the civilian cabinet. In 1965, Kỳ was appointed Prime Minister and Nguyễn Văn Thiệu became President by a special joint meeting of military leaders following the voluntary resignation of civilian President Sửu. After leaving the Prime Minister post, Dr. Quát returned to his medical practice. He remained in politics until 1975 by working with the Asia Anti-Communist League (Liên Minh Á Châu Chống Cộng) as Chairman of its Vietnamese office.

Last years/death
After the Fall of Saigon, Quát went into hiding. In August 1975, he was arrested and jailed at Chí Hòa Prison after a failed attempt to escape from Vietnam. It was there that he died of liver failure on 27 April 1979. The official report indicated that Quát had died from "a stroke, heart attack and liver failure".

See also
1965 South Vietnamese coup
Passage 12:
Mohammad Zubair Khan
Dr. Mohammad Zubair Khan has a doctorate in political economy from Johns Hopkins University. After working briefly for the World Bank, he worked at the International Monetary Fund from 1981 to 1992, assigned to a wide range of countries, including industrial countries in northern Europe and Turkey, developing countries in south Asia, the oil producing countries in the Middle East and countries in the South Pacific region.Since returning to Pakistan, he has been consulting for the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, UNDP, JBIC and other international organizations on a range of issues, such as macroeconomic stabilisation policies, monetary policy, trade and exchange rate issues, fiscal and external debt sustainability, fiscal federalism, tax administration and poverty related issues. He also lectures at the Central Banks of Egypt and Sri Lanka, the National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA) campus in Lahore, the Pakistan Administrative Staff College, and the National Defence University in Islamabad.
He has been Commerce Minister of Pakistan and represented Pakistan at the first ministerial conference of the World Trade Organization. Currently, in addition to consulting, Khan is a member of the National Finance Commission, the advisory board of the  Securities and Exchange Commission, Government of Pakistan, a member of the board of directors of Bank of Khyber, and a member of the Provincial Finance Commission of the Government of North-West Frontier Province. He is also a member of the Boao Boao Forum for Asia in Hainan, China.
Khan is currently managing director of Financial Techniques International. Because of his straight talk and knowledge of economics, he is a popular guest on TV.

Family
He is the son of the late Wali Mohammad Khan, the elder brother of late Hayat Sherpao and Aftab Sherpao who were born to the family of Khan Bahadar Ghulam Haider Khan Sherpao, a key player in the Pakistan Movement.
His family tree and cross-marriages in influential families of Pakistan are unique. He is the cousin and brother-in-law of the former President of Pakistan, the late Sardar Farooq Ahmed Khan Leghari, and uncle of Sumera Malik and Ayla Malik (granddaughters of Malik Amir Mohammed Khan of Kalabagh) both members of the National Assembly. He is also the uncle of Senator Jamal Leghari and Awais Leghari who was a Minister of Telecommunications and member of the National Assembly.

Publications
 Kickstarting Pakistan's Economy. Lahore: Vanguard Books, 2001. ISBN 969-402-356-4.
"Liberalization and Economic Crisis in Pakistan." In Rising to the Challenge in Asia: A Study of Financial Markets: Volume 9 - Pakistan.  Asian Development Bank, 1999.  ISBN 971-561-236-9.
Passage 13:
South Central Coast
In Vietnam, South Central Coast (Vietnamese: Duyên hải Nam Trung Bộ) and South Central Region (Vietnamese: Nam Trung Bộ) are two terms which can refer to the same region or two regions that do not correspond to each other. South Central Coast (sometimes called "South Central Region") consists of the independent municipality of Đà Nẵng and seven other provinces (picture 1), which means South Central Coast does not include Central Highlands (picture 2); nevertheless the term "South Central Region" can be also used to include Central Highlands as it is part of southern part of Central Vietnam. 
The region has traditionally been one of the main gateways to neighbouring Central Highlands. It has a complex geography with mountain ranges extending up to the coast, making transport and infrastructure development challenging but favouring tourism in some places, most notable around Phan Thiết, Nha Trang, and Da Nang. Tourism also benefits from Cham cultural heritage, including architecture, performances, and museums. It is generally much less industrialized and developed than the region around Ho Chi Minh City or the Red River Delta, but it has some regional industrial centers in Da Nang, around Nha Trang and Quy Nhon.
South Central Coast (Duyên hải Nam Trung Bộ) -  8 provinces: Da Nang, Quảng Nam, Quảng Ngãi, Bình Định, Phú Yên, Khánh Hòa, Ninh Thuận and Bình Thuận. The two southern provinces Ninh Thuận and Bình Thuận are sometimes seen as part of the Southeast region. In the Nguyễn dynasty, this area was known as Tả Trực Kỳ (the area located in the right of Thừa Thiên).

Provinces
History
The region was inhabited by people of the Sa Huỳnh culture between around 1000 BC and 200 AD. Remains of this ancient civilization were found in Sa Huỳnh, Quảng Ngãi province. It was succeeded by a kingdom called Lin-yi (林邑) by the Chinese or Lâm Ấp in Vietnamese that was in existence from 192 AD. Its political center was just north of the South Central Coast near Huế. Lin-yi was culturally influenced by India. According to Chinese sources, it repeatedly raided Jiaozhi (Vietnamese: Giao Chỉ), which was one factor that contributed to several wars between Jiaozhi and their Chinese colonizers against Lin-yi in the 3rd, 4th, and 5th centuries.

The historic territory of Champa roughly equals the South Central Coast region, although it has at times extended well into the North Central Coast and its influence also extended into the Central Highlands. Except for its first capital, all of Champa's political centers were located in the South Central Coast. Some of the earlier capitals, as well as the religious center of Mỹ Sơn and the port city of Hội An were located in the territory of present-day Quảng Nam province. Probably due to defeats in wars against Đại Việt the political center shifted further south to Vijaya in what is now Bình Định province. After the fall of Vijaya to Vietnam in 1471, Champa had to retreat to the southern principality of Panduranga (now at Phan Rang in Ninh Thuận province), while much of occupied Champa continued to exist as a sort of protectorate within Vietnam for some time.: 119 
Relations with the mountainous hinterland and traders from overseas were crucial. Champa's trade specialized on procuring luxury goods such as eaglewood from the Central Highlands and even as far as Attapeu in southern Laos and selling them to foreign merchants through their ports at Hội An and Thi Nai.: 110–111, 114

Geography
Topography
In contrast to most other coastal regions in Vietnam, the South Central Coast's terrain is not mainly flat. It has a diverse topography with mountain ranges and hills extending not only along the entire border with Central Highlands but also to the coast, forming several passes, bays, peninsulas, and beautiful sceneries with beaches and mountain backdrops. Many of the highest mountains are at or near the border with the Central Highlands, the highest of which is Ngọc Linh mountain at 2598 meters. There are several high peaks near the coast of Da Nang city (696m on Son Tra Peninsula), Bình Định province (up to 874m), Phú Yên province (up to 814m), Khánh Hòa province (up to 978m), and Ninh Thuận province (up to 1040m). 
Several mountain passes function as geographic borders between the provinces of the region, with one or two provinces between two major passes. Major passes include the Hải Vân Pass on the northern border of the region (Da Nang), Binh De pass (đèo Bình Đê) between Quảng Ngãi province and Bình Định province, Cù Mông pass (đèo Cù Mông) between Bình Định province and Phú Yên province and Cả pass (đèo Cả) between Phú Yên province and Khánh Hòa province.The region includes several islands. Some of the larger ones are the Lý Sơn Islands, the Cham Islands, and Phú Quý island. The Paracel Islands and the Spratly Islands are officially administered by Da Nang City and Khánh Hòa Province. However, sovereignty over them is disputed and Vietnam actually controls only some of the Spratly Islands.

Hydrography
There are several rivers along the South Central Coast, the most significant being Thu Bồn River in Quảng Nam province and Đà Rằng River in Phú Yên province (most of the latter's river system is in the Central Highlands. Other major rivers include Trà Khúc River in Quảng Ngãi province, Côn River in Bình Định province, Ki Lo River in Phú Yên province, Cái River in Khánh Hòa province, and Dinh River in Ninh Thuận province.

Climate
Summer temperatures average above 28 °C (82 °F) along most of the coast with slightly lower temperatures further inland. Winters are significantly cooler with average temperatures ranging from around 20 to 25 °C (68 to 77 °F). The region includes some of the most arid (Ninh Thuận province and Bình Thuận province) as well as some of wettest climates in Vietnam (Da Nang, parts of Quảng Nam province, Quảng Ngãi province), with the rest being somewhere in between. While average precipitation per year exceeds 2,800 millimetres (110.2 in) in many parts of the three provinces in the north of the region, it is less than 800 millimetres (31.5 in) in much of Ninh Thuận province.

Economy
Agriculture, forestry, fishing
The South Central Coast's sector 1 (agriculture, forestry, fishing) performance can be seen as average in the national context, with its GDP contribution similar to its population share (9.7% and 9.5%). Rice output is below average, but output of some other crops (see table below) as well as forestry and fishing are above average.
The province with the largest sector 1 economy is Bình Định (contributing 22.9% to the regions sector 1 GDP), due to its relatively large output in agriculture, forestry, and fishing. It is followed by Quảng Nam province with 15%, Bình Thuận province with 14.6%, Quảng Ngãi province and Khánh Hòa province with around 13% each. Forestry output is concentrated in Quảng Nam province and Bình Định province with around 25% each, with Quảng Ngãi province and Bình Thuận province contribute another 15% each, while Da Nang and especially Ninh Thuận province have very small forestry sectors. Fishing output is highest in Khánh Hòa province (22.3%) and Bình Định province (19.6%), followed by Phú Yên province and Quảng Ngãi province with around 12% each and Quảng Nam province, Bình Thuận province and Phú Yên province with 9 to 10% each.2.52 million tons of rice were harvested in the South Central Coast in 2007, 7% of Vietnam's total rice harvest. The main producers are Bình Định (580kt in 2007), Bình Thuận (434kt), Quảng Nam (395kt), Quảng Ngãi (381kt), and Phú Yên (321kt). The region's maize harvest made up 7.5% of the nation's total.
Some tea and coffee are also planted in the region, but their output is not significant in the national context.

Industry
The South Central Coast is central Vietnam's most industrialized region, mostly due to major industrial centers such as Da Nang and Khánh Hòa province. However, industrialization in the region is still lagging behind the national average and is far behind Vietnam's two major industrial hubs around Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi. The region's industrial GDP was 35,885.4 billion VND in 2007, accounting for 37.35% of the region's total GDP and 7.54% of Vietnam's industrial GDP. More than 40% of that is produced in Khánh Hòa province and Da Nang (21.8% and 20%) and another 13 to 14% each by Quảng Nam province and Bình Định province. Bình Thuận province has been able to increase its share to 12% with growth rates in industry averaging 21.6% from 2000 to 2007. Most other provinces have achieved growth between 15 and 20%, with slower growth only in the established industrial centers of Da Nang (14.8%) and Khánh Hòa province (13%). The region's average industrial growth rate was 16.3% per year from 2000 to 2007, making the main driving force of the economy.

Da Nang has a relatively diversified industrial sector including textiles, fabric, fertilizer, cement, soap, paper, pharmaceuticals etc. Khánh Hòa's industrial sector is still more reliant on basic industries such as food and seafood processing and beverages, shipbuilding, etc. The province also benefited significantly from investment related to the former Russian naval base at Cam Ranh, to which around 30 factories were attached. Quy Nhon is the region's third largest industrial center. It has been able to capitalize on its advantage as a gateway to the Central Highlands to develop resource-based industries (wood processing and stone processing) and a major furniture manufacturing cluster. Other industries are more dispersed, such as construction materials and basic food processing.
New industrial centers are currently being developed in the economic zones: Chu Lai Economic Zone in southern Quảng Nam, nearby Dung Quat Economic Zone (with Dung Quất Refinery) in northern Quảng Ngãi province, Nhơn Hội Economic Zone in Quy Nhon, and Van Phong Economic Zone in northern Khánh Hòa province. All four zones have large areas of land, major infrastructure and industrial projects. However, in contrast to the smaller industrial parks, they are not limited to industrial sectors.

Infrastructure
Transport
Vietnam's main north-south transport corridors run through the whole South Central Coast region. 
The North–South Railway runs along the region, with Reunification Express stops at Đà Nẵng Railway Station, Diêu Trì Railway Station, and Nha Trang Railway Station. Stations with less frequent stops are Tam Kỳ Railway Station, Quảng Ngãi Railway Station, Quy Nhơn Railway Station, Tuy Hòa Railway Station, Tháp Chàm Railway Station, Mương Mán Railway Station, as well as several local railway stations.
The two-lane National Route 1 connects all major cities of the region to the rest of the country (Quy Nhon and Nha Trang by extension 1D and 1C). The Ministry of Transport is planning the construction of a 139.5 km four-lane highway from Da Nang to Quảng Ngãi province in cooperation with foreign donors.The region is connected to the Central Highlands by several national roads at Phan Rang (National Road 27 to Da Lat), Ninh Hòa, Khánh Hòa province (26 to Buôn Ma Thuột), Tuy Hòa (25 to Pleiku via Ayun Pa) Quy Nhon (19 to Pleiku), and western Quảng Nam province (14/ Ho Chi Minh Road to Kon Tum).The largest airport in the region is Da Nang International Airport with flights to various cities in Vietnam, Singapore, Siem Reap, Guangzhou, Shanghai and seasonal flights to other cities in mainland China and Taiwan. The region's second international airport at Cam Ranh (serving Nha Trang flights to various cities in Vietnam, Guangzhou, Shanghais, Hong Kong, etc.). Phu Cat Airport (serving Quy Nhon) and Dong Tac Airport (serving Tuy Hòa) have only domestic flights. Chu Lai in southern Quảng Nam province has an international airport, but only domestic flights.
Da Nang Port and Quy Nhơn Port are the region's major ports. Another major port is under construction at Vân Phong in Khánh Hòa province.

Energy
The South Central Coast has limited potential for hydro-power plants and has therefore not been a major part of EVN's mostly hydro-focused strategy. However, it is at the forefront of many of Vietnam's efforts to diversify electricity sources away from hydro-power. The country's first nuclear power plant is under construction in Ninh Thuận province. A second nuclear power project is being prepared with Japanese partners and will also be in Ninh Thuận.A 200 MW wind power plant is under construction in Ninh Thuận province and is planned to be completed in 2012. Other wind power plants are being constructed in Bình Thuận province.
Bình Thuận is also the location of a 1200 MW electro-thermal plant currently under construction.

Demography
The South Central Coast region had a population of 8.93 million. The three northern provinces of Quảng Nam, Quảng Ngãi and Bình Định have the largest populations and together make up almost half of the region's population (47.7%).2.82 million or 31.6% of them live in cities and towns. More than half of the region's urban population is in Da Nang, Khánh Hòa province and Bình Thuận province, while more than half of the rural population is in the provinces  of Quảng Nam, Bình Định and Quảng Ngãi.Annual population growth has averaged 1.22% from 2000 to 2007, with Da Nang recording the fastest population growth at 1.95%. Growth in the three northern provinces of Quảng Nam, Quảng Ngãi and Bình Định has been slowest at around 1%. The four other provinces had average growth rates between 1.26% (Khánh Hòa province) and 1.59% (Ninh Thuận province).The region's population is ethnically clearly dominated by the Vietnamese people (Kinh). There are some minorities, the most significant of which are the Cham, the descendants of Champa. They live mostly in the lowlands around Phan Rang and northern Bình Thuận province, with smaller communities in other provinces such as southern Bình Định. Other minorities live mostly in the mountainous western parts of the region. Areas inhabited by minority people make up more than half of Quảng Nam province and Quảng Ngãi province.
Passage 14:
Mueang Phan
Mueang Phan (Thai: เมืองพาน) is a village and tambon (subdistrict) of Phan District, in Chiang Rai Province, Thailand. In 2005 it had a total population of 19,326 people. The tambon contains 25 villages.
Passage 15:
Sauk Rapids Regional Bridge
The Sauk Rapids Regional Bridge is a bridge spanning the Mississippi River in the U. S. city of Sauk Rapids, Minnesota. Construction began on September 26, 2005; the bridge was completed in September 2007 and opened to traffic on October 23, 2007. The official dedication and ribbon-cutting ceremony took place on November 16, 2007.  The bridge replaced the former Sauk Rapids Bridge, located a short distance downriver, which was demolished in the fall and winter of 2007-2008.
The new bridge spans the BNSF Railway on the east bank of the river. Traffic flow is no longer disrupted during train crossings; this was a frequent problem with the former bridge.
The new span relied heavily on steel for its construction rather than concrete to reduce the number of piers needed to be placed in the river. This design choice increased the project cost by $2.3 million USD to a total cost estimated at $56.63 million.  Construction of the bridge of itself cost an estimated $20.46 million, with other costs including right-of-way purchases, road construction, and a program to help businesses affected by the project relocate elsewhere in downtown Sauk Rapids.
The entire project was large in scope, due to the amount of business and residential properties that were affected by its chosen location.  When the Sauk Rapids Bridge project began, it was considered to be the first downtown transportation project of its kind nationwide in terms of the scale of relocations of businesses that were necessary.  The success of the project may set a precedent for future bridges.The original design of the bridge was hotly contested between Benton County and the City of Sauk Rapids, and the dispute was nearly taken to court. The county had wished that the bridge land beyond Benton Drive (Sauk Rapids' "main street") on Second Avenue and connect with Second Street North. The city feared that such a design would adversely affect businesses in the downtown area and desired instead that the bridge land on Benton Drive. Benton County's stake in the project (Stearns County being the other contributor) was eventually handed over to the city, and it was elected that the bridge pass over the BNSF Railway, land on Benton Drive, and connect with Second Street North.
The Sauk Rapids Regional Bridge features a spiral walkway on the Sauk Rapids side of the bridge that allows pedestrians to access the city parking lot under the bridge.

See also
Sauk Rapids Bridge
List of crossings of the Upper Mississippi River
Passage 16:
Labanoras Regional Park
Labanoras Regional Park, established in 1992, is located 80 kilometers northeast of Lithuania's capital, Vilnius. Covering 553.18 km², it is the largest regional park in the country. Its administration is in the small town of Labanoras.

Nature

The park contains about 70 lakes; about 80% of its land is forested. Its floral biodiversity is high, and it is home to the densest population of nesting white stork couples in Europe. It also contains areas with archeological, architectural, ethnographic, and historic value.
It is the largest Lithuania regional park, distinguished by a variety of landscapes, extremely rich flora and fauna. The largest part of the park is occupied by forests (80%), mostly pine forests. Labanoras forest with abundant wetlands and lakes is characterized by an abundance of protected species. Lakes occupy 14 percent. park areas. Spectacular Black Lakajai and White Lakajai, Stirniai, Siesartis and other lakes in Molėtai Lake District, 15.8 km long Aisetas lake. Lakaja, one of the most beautiful and exotic rivers, was loved not only by water birds but also by water tourists.
There are 285 lakes in Labanoras Regional Park - the largest of all Lithuanian regional parks. Largest: Stirniai, White Lakajai, Kertuojai. About 30 streams flow through the park. These are Lakaja, Peršokšna, Dumblė, Luknelė. In addition to these water bodies, the park protects swamp ecosystems, valuable calcareous marshes.
A whole complex of high marshes and lakeside low marshes is protected - Kanija raistas and many larger and smaller wetlands. In the Girutiškis Nature Reserve here, the Beržalotas upland swamp shines with the mirrors of the lakes.
Pine forests make up 81 percent. of all the forests in the park. Along with abundant lakes, swamps, hilly and undulating terrain, they are very picturesque.
The distant surroundings of Aukštaitija National Park can be seen from the observation tower of the Lithuanian Museum of Ethnocosmology.
The park is a famous breeding ground for elks,  wolves  and lynxes.
Passage 17:
S-Fone
S-Fone was a mobile communication operator in Vietnam that used the CDMA technology. Founded on 1 July 2003 in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, S-Fone became the third network of Vietnam, breaking the duopoly of the two VNPT operators. It is the trademark of S-Telecom (CDMA Mobile Phone Centre) (set up as a joint venture between Saigon Postel Corp. (SPT) and Korea SK Telecom). SK Telecom decided to leave the partnership in 2010. SPT has since then found it difficult to find a new partner, after a co-operation with Saigon Tel failed.As of the start of 2005, breaking the old rule of the calls fee from 10 second to 1 second (6+1)7, S-Fone has 1,500,000 to 1,800,000 subscribers, contributing 3% to the total market (after Mobifone with 41%, Viettel Mobile with 34% and Vinaphone with 20%. Its market share (estimated based on revenues) fell to 0.1% by 2012 after suffering from a lack of capital, a small number of subscribers and low network quality.S-Fone has become highly indebted and has been unable to pay salaries for several months in its Hanoi branch in late 2012. S-Fone ceased its operation, closed its stores and website, and released its staff from their contracts in July 2012. Its operating license expired in 2016.

Achievements
S-Fone is the first and biggest national cellular mobile phone network using CDMA in Vietnam (followed by EVN Telecom and HT Mobile). On 9 October 2006, S-Fone officially launched CDMA 2000 1x EV-DO value added services for the first time in Vietnam: VOD/MOD (Video, TV on demand, music on demand) and mobile Internet (enabling internet access for PCs and laptops via S-Fone network) beginning in Ho Chi Minh City, Hanoi, Da Nang, Hai Phong and Can Tho.
Passage 18:
Fire and Water (sculpture)
Fire and Water is a public art work by American artist John Luttropp, located on the southwest side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The multi-element architectural sculpture was created for the entrance of the Milwaukee Fire Department Engine Company #25 station. It is located at 300 S. 84th St.

Description
The sculpture includes two primary elements: a pair of neon-topped tapering concrete walls flanking the entry sidewalk, and a wall-mounted neon sign displaying the number 25 in a stylized font. During the day, the neon is not lit. At night, the entry numbers glow red, and the tops of the tapering wall glow blue. According to the Smithsonian Institution's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey, the red neon symbolizes fire and the blue neon symbolizes water spray from fire hoses.

Historical information
The City of Milwaukee commissioned the work for $9,000 and it was greeted with some criticism. The Milwaukee Sentinel compared the neon look to a fast food restaurant and quoted hesitant firefighters based at the station.
Passage 19:
Bodyguard (British TV series)
Bodyguard is a British political thriller television series created and written by Jed Mercurio and produced by World Productions as part of ITV Studios for the BBC. The six-part series centres around the fictional character of Police Sergeant David Budd (Richard Madden), a British Army war veteran suffering from PTSD, who is now working for the Royalty and Specialist Protection Branch of London's Metropolitan Police Service. He is assigned as the principal protection officer (PPO) for the ambitious Home Secretary Julia Montague (Keeley Hawes), whose politics he despises. The series draws attention to controversial issues such as  government monitoring of private information and its regulation, the politics of intervention and terrorism, and PTSD.The series began broadcasting on BBC One on 26 August 2018, achieving the highest viewing figures for a new BBC drama in the multichannel era and the highest BBC viewing figures since 2008. The BBC commissioned the series from the then-independent World Productions in 2016. Since ITV Studios Global Entertainment acquired the company in 2017, they have handled international distribution for the series. Netflix agreed to a distribution deal to broadcast the show outside the United Kingdom and Ireland.The series was met with critical acclaim, particularly for Madden's performance. The series received numerous award nominations including the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama, with Madden winning the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Drama. At the 71st Primetime Emmy Awards, the series was nominated for Outstanding Drama Series and a second series is in development.

Cast and characters
Main
Budd familyRichard Madden as PS David Budd, a Scottish veteran of the Afghanistan war and now dedicated Principal Protection Officer (PPO) at Protection Command. His wartime experiences have left him struggling with PTSD, prone to volatile behaviour, and mistrustful of politicians. Assigned to protect Julia Montague, whose politics he loathes, Budd is conflicted over his loyalties.
Sophie Rundle as Vicky Budd, David's wife and the mother of their two children, who works as a ward sister at a London hospital. David's unpredictable moods and issues with PTSD since returning from Afghanistan resulted in their marriage being estranged.GovernmentKeeley Hawes as The Rt Hon. Julia Montague MP, the Home Secretary and Conservative Party Member of Parliament for the fictional constituency of Thames West. Montague's suspected desire to become Prime Minister, and her controversial additions to the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, dubbed "RIPA-18" and "The Snoopers' Charter", which would give greater powers to the police and Security Services to investigate personal communications and information, have resulted in many enemies.
Vincent Franklin as Mike Travis MP, Minister of State for Counter-Terrorism, who grows increasingly resentful over being excluded from Montague's dealings with MI5.
Nicholas Gleaves as The Rt Hon. Roger Penhaligon MP, the Government Chief Whip, Member of Parliament for Surrey North and Montague's ex-husband. A staunch supporter of the Prime Minister, he becomes increasingly suspicious and wary of Montague's political ambition.
David Westhead as The Rt Hon. John Vosler MP, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and Leader of the Conservative Party.
Paul Ready as Rob MacDonald, Special Advisor to the Home Secretary, who has a crush on Montague.PoliceGina McKee as Commander Anne Sampson, Head of Counter Terrorism Command (SO15) and Deepak Sharma's superior. Threatened by Montague's preference for MI5, Sampson enlists Budd's help.
Pippa Haywood as CSI Lorraine Craddock, Budd's commanding officer at Protection Command, who assigns him to protect Montague.
Ash Tandon as DCI Deepak Sharma, a senior detective in SO15 leading the investigation into the recent series of terror activities. As things fail to add up, he becomes suspicious of Budd.
Nina Toussaint-White as DS Louise Rayburn, an SO15 officer working under Sharma who starts to work with Budd.Security Service / MI5Stuart Bowman as Stephen Hunter-Dunn, Director General of the Security Service (MI5), whose surveillance powers will be significantly enhanced by RIPA 18. Montague's preference for MI5 over SO15 puts him at odds with Sampson.
Michael Shaeffer as "Richard Longcross", an enigmatic MI5 agent working under Hunter-Dunn who becomes involved in a cat-and-mouse game with Budd.CriminalsTom Brooke as Andrew 'Andy' Apsted, a war veteran and friend of Budd's. Scarred both physically and mentally by his experiences in Afghanistan, Apsted leads the anti-war Veterans Peace Group.
Matt Stokoe as Luke Aikens, a mysterious organised crime leader. He seeks to eliminate the Home Secretary.
Anjli Mohindra as Nadia Ali, implicated with her husband in an attempted bombing on a London-bound train service.

Recurring
FamilyMatthew Stagg as Charlie Budd, David and Vicky's 8-year-old son. Charlie attends Heath Bank Primary School in Camberwell.
Bella Padden as Ella Budd, David and Vicky's 10-year-old daughter. Ella attends Heath Bank Primary School in Camberwell.GovernmentShubham Saraf as Tahir Mahmood, Montague's PR Adviser.
Stephanie Hyam as Chanel Dyson, the PR Advisor to the Home Secretary before getting fired by Montague.PoliceClaire-Louise Cordwell as Constable Kim Knowles, a Protection Command bodyguard in Budd's team.
Richard Riddell as Constable Tom Fenton, a Protection Command bodyguard in Budd's team.

Episodes
Production
The series was largely filmed on location in London, including the Whittington Estate for Budd's flat and Battersea for Montague's flat. The bomb scenes in the final episode were filmed around CityPoint near Moorgate and Woburn Square and Senate House in Bloomsbury.
The train scenes in the first episode were filmed on the Mid-Norfolk Railway.BBC journalists including Andrew Marr, John Pienaar, John Humphrys, and Laura Kuenssberg appear as themselves.

Reception
Audience
Viewing figures for the series were high, with 10.4 million (peaking at 11 million) viewers watching the overnight broadcast of the finale live on BBC One alone. As significant numbers of viewers watched the show on catchup service iPlayer after transmission, the series sparked a debate on how the media should handle spoilers. Radio Times revealed the fate of Montague in a cover story during the series's original transmission.

Critical response
The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gave the series a 93% approval rating, with an average rating of 8.2/10, based on 70 reviews. The critical consensus reads, "Bodyguard maintains a palpable tension throughout its pulpy proceedings to create an absorbing and addicting psychological thriller." On Metacritic, the series has a weighted average score of 79 out of 100 based on 12 reviews, indicating "generally favourable reviews".In a positive review, Variety's Daniel D'Addario describes the series as "Both juicy in its delving into character psychology and rippingly ready to tear up its playbook as it goes, it’s a six-episode ride that demands, and rewards, a quick binge." D'Addario further states that the series "excels at both the daring, gasp-inducing twist and the methodical construction of slower-burning thrills", and that Madden's performance "by turns tripping on his own empathy, and angrily operating beyond rationality, makes us believe anything is possible — a wonderful asset for a show that seeks above all else to keep us watching". Allison Keene, writing for Collider, lauds the performances of the cast, describing Madden's as "enthralling" and "absolutely heartbreaking", and depicts the series as "an exhilarating ride that truly showcases Madden as a major talent". Writing for Time, Judy Berman states that the series "subverts thriller tropes just often enough to earn its reliance on them", and in a five-star review Guardian critic Lucy Mangan expresses that "[Mercurio] has created something as dark and moreish as ever". Hanh Nguyen of IndieWire describes the series as "relentless", and the performances of Madden and Hawes as "mesmerizing". Robert Rorke of the New York Post writes that the series is "gripping" and that Madden "gives a magnetic performance".In a more mixed assessment, Robert Lloyd of the Los Angeles Times wrote that "Some elements of the series struck me as odd...and certain climactic revelations had me talking to the screen. But the action is well mounted and the tension tightly wound; it uncoils, when it does, with a satisfying snap". In a similarly mixed review, The Atlantic's Sophie Gilbert acknowledged that "Hawes is elegantly unknowable as Julia...she gives just enough nuance in her performance to make you question whether she has a heart or is extremely deft at emotional manipulation", however she laments that "To watch Bodyguard’s six episodes is to suspend disbelief and submit to its surprises. It helps not to expect too much more than that, particularly when it comes to the show’s lavish employment of archetypes, which inevitably leads to its more questionable elements."Intelligent Protection International Limited’s CEO Alex Bomberg on BBC Radio 5 Live said that the plot, in particular the personal relationship that Budd developed with his charge, would be frowned upon as both unprofessional and putting the charge at risk. Detective Chief Inspector Steve Ray, of the Royal and Specialist Protection Command (RaSP) told the BBC that “the relationship that we have with our principals is purely professional”, adding that anyone who crossed the line would quickly be identified and would not last very long in Protection Command or even in the police service”.

Accolades
Red Nose Bodyguard
A skit titled Red Nose Bodyguard was filmed in support of Comic Relief, featuring many cast members from the series as well as performances from Joanna Lumley, Adrian Dunbar and Sanjeev Bhaskar. The skit was first broadcast on Red Nose Day 2019 on 15 March 2019.

See also
List of fictional prime ministers of the United Kingdom