Passage 1:
Peter Blum
Peter Emil Julius Blum (4 May 1925 – 5 December 1990) was an Afrikaans poet. As a child, he emigrated to the Union of South Africa with his family. From an early age Blum was already able to speak several languages, including German and Italian.After studying literature at the University of Cape Town and at the University of Stellenbosch, he took up a position as a librarian in Cape Town and, later, in Kroonstad in the Orange Free State. Blum married Henrietta Cecilia Smit (born 3 November 1911, died 2002 in Worthing, Sussex, UK), a South African art teacher, in 1955.
His success as a poet was first affirmed in 1956 when he won the Reina Prinsen Geerligs Prize for his volume Steenbok tot poolsee (the title being a reference to the Tropic of Capricorn and the southern Antarctic Ocean, relating to the geographical location of South and Southern Africa).Blum was twice denied South African citizenship. Kannemeyer (1993) speculates that citizenship was denied because of Blum's vociferous opposition to the ruling National Party's policy of apartheid.
Frustrated by this turn of events, Blum and his wife left South Africa to resettle in the suburb of Hounslow in London.During his imprisonment between 1975 and 1982, Breyten Breytenbach wrote the poem, Ballade van ontroue bemindes("Ballade of Unfaithful Lovers"). Inspired by François Villon's Ballade des Dames du Temps Jadis, Breytenbach compared Afrikaner dissidents Peter Blum, Ingrid Jonker, and himself to unfaithful lovers, who had betrayed Afrikaans poetry by taking leave of it.Peter Blum died in London on 5 December 1990, aged 65.

Works
Steenbok tot poolsee (1955) Tafelberg: Cape Town. ISBN 978-0-624-01581-9
Enklaves van die lig (1958) Human & Rousseau: Cape Town. ISBN 978-0-7981-3478-1
Passage 2:
Lee Eddy
Lee Eddy (born May 12, 1979) is an American stage actress, comedian and writer best known for her work on Red vs. Blue and Camp Camp.

Early life and career
She was born in Shreveport, Louisiana where as a child she was a member of The Peter Pan Players. Eddy regularly performs in Austin, Texas.
Eddy has been voted "Best Actress in Austin" in The Austin Chronicle's Reader poll for 2004, 2005 and 2006.She frequently works with Rooster Teeth, voicing the character of Four Seven Niner in Red vs. Blue, Gwen in their animated series, Camp Camp, and playing Lex in their live-action drama Day 5.

Personal life
She is married to actor and screenwriter Macon Blair and have a son Buck (born 2015).

Filmography
Film
Television
Web
Passage 3:
Marshall Eriksen
Marshall Eriksen is a fictional character on the CBS sitcom How I Met Your Mother, portrayed by Jason Segel. Series co-creator Craig Thomas explained that he based Marshall and Lily on himself and his wife Rebecca.

Character overview
The series revolves around the adventures of the five main characters: Ted Mosby (Josh Radnor) and his best friend Marshall, his friend and Marshall's girlfriend (later fiancee and wife) Lily Aldrin (Alyson Hannigan), friend Barney Stinson (Neil Patrick Harris) and friend/love interest (and future love interest and wife to Barney Stinson) Robin Scherbatsky (Cobie Smulders).
Marshall met Ted and Lily during their freshman year at Wesleyan University in 1996, and they moved into an apartment in New York City together after graduation. In the show's pilot episode, he proposes to Lily, inspiring Ted to start looking for the love of his life.
Marshall is fascinated by the paranormal, and has absolute faith that mythical creatures such as Sasquatch and the Loch Ness Monster are real. He has even discovered a paranormal event himself: a bizarre creature he names "the cockamouse". He is also a huge fan of the Minnesota Vikings, much like his father.
Although very few references were made to identify Marshall's birthday, it can be assumed he was in the same school year as best friend and roommate Ted Mosby and then-girlfriend Lily Aldrin. In "The Yips" Marshall says he is 29. This episode aired in November 2007. This confirms Marshall's birth year to be either 1977 or 1978. Ted turned 30 on April 25, 2008 in "The Goat". The dialogue in this episode implies that Lily, Marshall and Robin have not yet reached this milestone. In "Glitter", Lily says Marshall is 384 months old, thus 32 years, 1 week, 1 day and 21 hours old. Since the episode plays somewhere between November 9 (the date the previous episode played in) and November 24, 2010 (the date the next episode plays in) it can only be concluded that he was born between November 2 and November 14, 1978.

Life before first episode
Marshall was born and raised in St. Cloud, Minnesota, the youngest of three brothers. His last name, the fact that he is from Minnesota and his references to lutefisk suggests that he might be a Norwegian American. He has been shown to be extremely close to his family, particularly his father, Marvin (Bill Fagerbakke). His relationships with his two older brothers, Marvin, Jr. and Marcus, was depicted in several episodes as involving pranks and  brutal fighting matches when they were teenagers. By the time the series begins, both of his brothers are married and have started families. It was depicted that his brothers were the ones who gave Marshall his very first car, a Pontiac Fiero, which had a cassette single stuck in it containing the song "I'm Gonna Be (500 Miles)".
In an episode it's shown Marshall starts smoking while still in high school and struggles to stop until his children are born.
After graduating from an unnamed St. Cloud high school, Marshall attended and received his B.A. from Wesleyan University. He met both Lily and Ted during the move-in process. Ted was his first roommate in college. Marshall is shown to frequently smoke marijuana, though in the show, Future Ted refers to this as "eating a sandwich" in order to hide their past drug use from his children. In fact, Marshall is shown to have smoked marijuana before initially meeting Ted and confuses him for the dean of the school. Marshall is also shown to enjoy drinking to the point of intoxication in college. One of those times, he is involved in a hazing where he becomes so drunk that he streaks and proclaims himself "Beercules" following the drinking game "Edward 40-Hands", a reference to the film Edward Scissorhands, but instead of scissors for hands, the participant tapes 40 fl. oz. drinks to their hands.
Marshall and Ted became good friends after this. During a break during school, Marshall plans to drive back to Minnesota in his Fiero. Marshall offers Ted a ride to his own home in Shaker Heights saying that it is on the way, which Ted eventually accepts. They bond during a blizzard and over the song "I'm Gonna Be (500 Miles)". Ted's friendship with Marshall is shown to help strengthen Lily and Marshall's early relationship, by him inviting her into their first roommate photo, Ted encouraging Marshall to commit to Lily, despite Marshall not having much prior relationship experience. Ted and Marshall would also take frequent roadtrips to Chicago to get pizza from their favorite shop. They also begin their tradition of watching the original Star Wars trilogy while in school together.
Marshall met Lily during the move-in process, when Lily was determined to meet him and found his room. She asked him to install her stereo for her and they were in love at first sight. They exclusively date through college, even when she studies abroad in Paris. Their nicknames for each other are "Lily-pad" and "Marsh-mallow".
After graduating, Marshall and Ted move in together into the apartment in New York. Marshall is initially terrified of living in a large city, though he eventually overcomes his fear. He takes several years off, working in a clothing store, before attending  Columbia University Law School to receive his Juris Doctor (J.D.).

How I Met Your Mother
During the pilot episode, Marshall proposes to Lily. Throughout the series, his relationship with Lily progresses through their engagement, their break up when she decides to move to San Francisco for an art fellowship, Lily's eventual return to New York City and their attempt at a friendship outside of a romantic relationship, their reconciliation and re-engagement, their wedding, and finally their marriage.

Initial engagement
Marshall and Lily are initially engaged during the first season. Their engagement is what initially prompts Ted to begin pursuing marriage for himself.
Marshall at times is shown to feel left out of the hijinks that Ted and Barney get into without him, going so far as to drive to Philadelphia to have a "legendary" adventure with them.
Marshall is shown to be completely committed in spite of his sadness at being left out of Ted and Barney's "single man" shenanigans. In Best Prom Ever, he sneaks into a high school prom in order to provide Lily with sheet music for the song they want to dance to at their wedding, "Good Feeling" from the Violent Femmes album.
During this period, the couple is generally happy, but the instability of their engagement and relationship is foreshadowed in several episodes. In "Okay Awesome", Marshall is shown to be jealous of the fun that Barney and Ted have by going out to clubs while Lily wants to have a "grown up" wine and cheese party with other couples. In "Belly Full of Turkey", the couple go to Minnesota to visit Marshall's family for Thanksgiving. There, Lily vocalizes that she does not want to change her name, that she is hesitant about starting a family with Marshall, and that the couple are not on the same page about where they would raise their family if they chose to have children. In "Zip, Zip, Zip", Marshall and Lily are trapped in the apartment bathroom and openly discuss that they are sad about no longer having new milestones. This period of their relationship ends in the first season finale, "Come On", when Marshall discovers that Lily interviewed for an art fellowship in San Francisco. They have a fight, during which Lily claims that she was never going to actually take the fellowship, but due to Marshall's comments during the fight, she decides that she needed to take a break from the relationship in order to pursue her dream as an artist.
During this time, it was demonstrated that Marshall and Lily have a psychic connection and are able to communicate with each other through thought.

Break-up and Lily's return to New York
The second season begins with Marshall dealing with the break-up of his long-term relationship and engagement. He was shown to be extremely depressed during the first few months post-break-up. He becomes obsessed with credit card bills that are still sent to their apartment. This obsession leads him to believe that Lily returned to New York and didn't tell him, causing him to believe that she does not want to get back together. When he goes to a New York hotel shown on her credit card bill to confront her and the man that had answered the phone when he had called their room, he discovers that Lily had not returned, but had been a victim of identity fraud. This allows him to let go of the relationship.
He eventually tries dating, though most of his attempts are stymied by his friend Barney Stinson, who is later revealed to be intentionally sabotaging these attempts in order to ensure the reunification of Marshall and Lily.
Marshall, while single, misses parts of being in a relationship, such as having someone to attend concerts with and going to brunch, which his friends tell him is something that can only be done when in a couple. Marshall begins a "bromance" with his friend and fellow law student, Brad Morris (Joe Manganiello), who had also recently gone through a break-up. Marshall thinks that Brad is becoming too romantic for the relationship, which culminates in Marshall reluctantly agreeing to attend a wedding with him, only to arrive in front of Brad's apartment to see him with flowers. Marshall assumes that the flowers are for him and panics, but Brad reveals that he had gotten back together with his recent break-up.
When Marshall encountered Lily after her return to New York City, Lily proposed they get back together, saying that leaving him was a mistake and that she still loves him. Marshall refused and said that he also needed time to discover who he is outside the relationship.
Marshall managed to date one woman, a barista, who his friends claimed has "crazy eyes". She tells him several outlandish stories, which are revealed to be true and caused by Lily, who is still obsessed with Marshall. At the end of their date, it is revealed that Lily had broken into the apartment to sabotage the date with a picture of Marshall and Lily together. This culminates with them making up and getting back together.

Second engagement and wedding
After reconciling, Marshall and Lily decide to elope in Atlantic City in order to avoid the judgment of Marshall's family for Lily having left him. They decide not to go through with it at the last moment and want to instead have a celebration with their families and friends present.
Marshall's friendship are further explored during this time in the episode "Slap Bet". Marshall agrees to a bet with Barney about the reason Robin doesn't like malls. Marshall, being from Minnesota, believes that Robin doesn't like malls because she was married in one, as some people had done in the Mall of America. This results in Marshall being given several slaps which he inflict upon Barney throughout the series, because, although Robin was not married at a mall, Barney was incorrect that she had been in a pornographic film.
During this time, Marshall's first car dies. He reminisces with his friends about the times that they all shared in the car and is reluctant to scrap the vehicle. He reveals that he is unhappy with the corporate job he had been working and felt that only his old, beaten car kept him connected with the kind of man that he wanted to be.
Toward the end of the second season, before the wedding, when Ted is planning to move in with his girlfriend, Robin, it is shown that most of the possessions in the apartment belonged to Ted. Marshall and Lily, while still wanting to get married, learn that they are somewhat dependent on Ted. The couple is relieved when Ted ultimately decides not to move in with Robin and returns to the apartment.
On the day of their wedding, Marshall begins to have anxiety about the day and shave his head. To relieve some of the stress of the day, Marshall and Lily have a two ceremonies; first, one that is private and only their closest friends attend and the second one which is in before all of their guests.

Post-wedding
After their wedding, Marshall and Lily continue to live with Ted in the apartment for some time until they decide that they need to move out to be on their own. In "I'm Not That Guy" Marshall ends up taking a job working at another corporate position, though he is unhappy about doing so. He takes the job instead of pursuing his dream of working in environmental law after being offered his dream job working for the Natural Resources Defense Council in order to provide for Lily, who had helped to support him during law school on her kindergarten teacher's salary. He was informed that his only client at the corporate office would be an amusement park, which is shown to be equally awful as the other clients of the office.
With his new salary, Marshall believes that he is able to afford a new home and makes plans with Lily to purchase an apartment in "Dowisetrepla". He finds out that Lily has massive credit card debt, which negatively affects their ability to get a good interest rate on a mortgage. They still decide to get the mortgage to afford the apartment, learn that "DOWISETREPLA" stands for "DOwn WInd of the SEwage TREatment PLAnt", which causes the area to reek of sewage when it is running during the week. Upon their initial move in to the apartment, they also discover that it is crooked and they temporarily move back in with Ted while the floors are levelled.
Marshall goes through several more life milestones. In "Spoiler Alert", he ends up passing the bar; then he ends up snapping when confronting his boss at the law office, resulting in Marshall quitting his job in "The Chain of Screaming".
Marshall also confronts Ted about his behavior. Ted attempting to pursue a married woman deeply offends Marshall now that he is married.
Toward the beginning of season 4, it is revealed that Barney has gotten a job for Marshall working the fictional Goliath National Bank (GNB). Lily and Marshall also discuss having a baby; initially Lily doesn't believe they are ready and Marshall does, but while working for GNB Marshall is extremely busy and while having to balance work with taking care of a drunken Lily, he realizes that he doesn't believe they are ready at that time and they decide to wait.
During this period of his life, Marshall reveals that he hates living in a small apartment in New York when visiting Ted's fiancee's home in New Jersey. He also reveals that he cannot fantasize about women other than Lily without first imagining that she has died and he has gone through a grieving process. It is shown in "The Sexless Innkeeper" that Lily and Marshall are terrible hosts during "couple's nights". Marshall is apparently relegated to picking the cheese, because Lily is a gifted chef; Marshall takes this too far and is obsessed with the gouda during a night spent with Robin and Barney.
It is also shown that Ted somewhat resents Lily, because Marshall and Lily have become inseparable. Marshall is unable or unwilling to take road trips with Ted the way they would when they were both unmarried.

Attempts at pregnancy and death of Marshall's father
Eventually, Marshall and Lily decide to start trying for a baby. They agree to only do so once they have seen a doppelganger for each of their friends. Marshall decides that when Lily sees someone who looks nothing like Barney, however, and decides that it is his doppelganger, to not tell her and that it must mean that she is ready. They make this agreement during the formation of their friend group's tradition of going to "Robots vs Wrestlers".
Marshall's relationship with his father is depicted around this time as being overly close. Lily was angered when she learned that Marshall had told his father that they were trying to conceive. Marshall realizes that while he loves his father and their relationship, he should keep some details of his private married life from him.
Marshall realizes that he would like his children to boys, due to some internalized misogyny after recalling how he spoke to and treated girls when he was in high school and various strippers he has seen with Barney. Marshall's father gives him advice on how to only conceive boys, based on their family traditions. Marshall learned that Lily had hoped for a girl and was trying her own absurd methods for guaranteeing a girl; they decide not to try to influence the sex of the baby while trying to conceive.
After trying for several months, Marshall and Lily to see a specialist hoping that they won't have issues conceiving. This is where they ultimately see Barney's true doppelganger, a gynecologist. Marshall is able to have an open and frank discussion about his worries with fertility with his parents, which he is later grateful to Lily for being able to have. They learn that they have no fertility issues.
The same day that they learn that they have no fertility issues, Marshall's father passes away from a heart attack. When Marvin dies Marshall is devastated, and takes a long time to recover; not to mention that during the episode "Last Words"  he struggles with remembering what Marvin's last words were to him. After the funeral, Marshall temporarily regresses to his teenage personality while staying with his mother under the guise of helping her to emotionally recover from Marvin's death.
Upon returning to New York, Marshall and Lily take a break from attempting to conceive, though by the season 6 finale, "Challenge Accepted", Lily is pregnant. Marshall leaves his job at GNB, hoping to start his career working in environmental law.

Pregnancy
After Marshall finds out that Lily is pregnant, he begins a new job working in an environmental law office. They begin to prepare their apartment for the baby's arrival and learn that they will be having a boy. During this time, Lily's paternal grandparents gift them their home on Long Island and despite Marshall wanting to move out of New York City to raise their children, they decide not to make any major decisions while Lily is having "pregnancy brain". They do eventually begin moving into the home, much to the chagrin of their friends. At this time, Lily's father also moves in with them.
After realizing that they do not enjoy living in the home on Long Island, Marshall and Lily are informed by Ted that they were never taken off the lease. Ted decided to move out of the apartment and gifts it to them. They happily move back, taking Ted's bedroom and converting Marshall's old room into the baby's nursery.
Toward the end of Lily's pregnancy, Marshall demonstrates his anxiety about beginning parenthood; he panics about their (perceived) lack of preparation for when the baby comes. Lily is frustrated by this and has him sent on a trip to Atlantic City with Barney, so that she can have some quiet time before the baby comes. She goes into labor while Marshall is away.

Beginning of parenthood and dream job
Marshall is able to return to New York in time for the birth of their son, whom they name after Marshall's late father, Marvin. Marshall also promised Barney that they would give Marvin the middle name "Wait-for-it". After returning home from the hospital, Marshall and Lily institute a new rule that their friends cannot come them with personal problems unless they are an 8 out of 10 or higher; this results in the couple not being aware of the struggles in their friends' lives, which the come to regret and rescind the rule after trying to find out whom they will appoint to be Marvin's godparents.
During this time, they agree to hire Lily's father Mickey as Marvin's nanny after Mickey recounts to Lily how he took care of her as a stay-at-home parent when she was young.
Marshall, now working his dream job, starts having new challenges there as well. He learns that his boss believes that the environment is already too devastated to save, so Marshall, to save the planet for his newborn son, marshals the office into being more aggressive when suing a pharmaceutical company.  He also learns that he is not a credible reference, because he is too willing to approve of others; he learns this when he is a reference for his friend Brad, who actually works for the adverse pharmaceutical company on their big case and steals some of their work for the case. In the show, this is shown to be bad for Marshall's case, but in actuality, would have been detrimental for the pharmaceutical company under the Laws of Civil Procedure disallowing this type of activity. Marshall was still able to overcome this and win at trial, but the judge awards him a pittance. This inspires him to seek a position as a judge in New York.

Career conflicts
After he submits his application for a judge position, Lily starts a new career as a fine-arts consultant for Ted's now ex-girlfriend's ex-husband, The Captain. Marshall was at first supportive, but once Lily started, she began to spend very little time at home and he grew frustrated with feeling like he was handling more than his fair share of the parenting responsibilities. After communicating this to Lily, she helps to even the parenting load more.
After this, Lily was offered an opportunity to move to Rome to consult for the Captain. which she turns down so that Marshall can continue pursuing his dream job of working in environmental law. Marshall then reveals that since the disappointing outcome of the case, the office has functionally been shut down from a lack a clients. Marshall told her that he would be thrilled to move to Italy, so Lily took the position.
Marshall's mother then learns from Lily that they are planning to move to Italy and she wants to spend time with her grandson before they leave. Marshall flies out to Minnesota where he receives a phone call granting him a recently vacated judgeship. In the last episode of the eighth season, he had applied to become a judge, deciding that this is where he will be able to make the most impact. He accepts the judgeship without discussing it with Lily. This effectively cancelled their plans to move to Italy.

Robin and Barney's wedding weekend
Marshall spent time on the road trying to find his way back to New York City from Minnesota with his new companion Daphne who worked for an oil corporation. They initially butted heads, but became friends during their travels, bonding over their shared frustration with Ted's step-father and sharing their struggles with various aspects of parenthood. While Marshall was separated from Lily, she missed him so much that she attached a tablet to a body pillow so that he could be present for their conversations. She named it "Marsh-pillow" after him.
He has several attempts at trying to hide that he took the judgeship from Lily while he is on the road, but ultimately comes clean to her when he arrives at the wedding venue. He decided to do so because he didn't want to have any secrets from his wife.
Lily and Marshall had a fight about him accepting the position without first discussing it with her. After Lily stormed out, Marshall considered the consequences of the fight by having a discussion with his internal monologue which he pictured as his father and Lily from 10 years ago. He came to the conclusion that he doesn't want to win a fight over their careers, but wants them both to be happy. Lily and Marshall reconciled and Lily told Marshall to take the job, even though he was willing to give it up for her to be happy. Marshall soon learned that this was because Lily found out that she was pregnant with their second child. Marshall decided that since she has provided him with so much happiness from having a family, that he wanted to make her happy and agreed to move to Rome for her and her career.

Post Stinson-Scherbatsky wedding
The series finale, "Last Forever", reveals that he worked for another corporate firm after returning to New York, until another judge's seat opened up for him. In the year 2020, he is elected to the New York State Supreme Court. It is also shown that Marshall and Lily have a daughter for their second child, whom they name Daisy after the flower whose pot Lily stuck her pregnancy test into. Additionally, it is revealed that Lily becomes pregnant a third time, though the gender and name are not revealed. This pregnancy happens around the same time as Robin and Barney's divorce. Marshall and Lily eventually help their oldest son, Marvin, move into Wesleyan where they met.

How I Met Your Father
Though Marshall does not himself appear in the How I Met Your Father spinoff, it is revealed that by 2022, his, Ted's and Lily's apartment has been sold to Jesse who is roommates with Sid who also own the swords left behind.

Relationships
Lily Aldrin
Marshall and Lily meet on their first day of college and fall in love at first sight. They move in together and eventually get engaged. In the final episode of the first season, Lily breaks off their engagement to accept a painting fellowship in San Francisco. Marshall falls into a deep depression, but nevertheless refuses to take Lily back when she returns to New York. They eventually reconcile, however, and get married in the end of the second season. They initially have trouble conceiving a child, but Lily finally gets pregnant at the end of the sixth season, and gives birth to a boy, Marvin, at the end of the seventh.Marshall and Lily are soul mates; they do virtually everything together, tell each other about every minute detail of their lives, and have only had sex with each other. They can even understand each other perfectly when they are seemingly incoherent, such as when Lily is trying to speak through bouts of morning sickness or when Marshall is speaking in pseudo-Italian gibberish.Throughout the final season, which takes place over one weekend, Marshall travels with Marvin to the Farhampton Inn, where Robin and Barney are getting married. He struggles with telling Lily about his new job, as it conflicts with her dream of working as an art consultant in Rome. When he finds out she is pregnant with their second child, however, he gives up the judgeship and agrees to go to Rome with her and their new family.By the end of the series, Marshall and Lily have three children: Marvin, Daisy, and a third child whose name is never revealed.

Ted Mosby
Marshall and Ted are college roommates and best friends. They first bonded during an ill-fated college road trip. Marshall and Lily consider Ted a part of their family, their "third Musketeer". Ted helps Marshall recover when he and Lily briefly break up. Along with the other main characters, Marshall is by Ted's side during every major event in his life, including a serious car accident, being left at the altar, and, finally, Ted's marriage to the titular Mother. Ted is best man at Marshall's wedding, and Marshall does the honors when Ted gets married in the series finale.

Barney Stinson
Marshall and Barney know each other through Ted, Barney having taken it upon himself to "teach them how to live". Along with the other characters, Marshall is both amused and horrified by Barney's promiscuity, deceptiveness and penchant for over-the-top schemes. Barney has shown himself to be a good friend, however; he gets Marshall an internship, persuades Lily to return to New York from San Francisco, and gets him his job at Goliath National Bank. Barney serves as "co-best man" (along with Ted) at Marshall and Lily's wedding. Along with Ted, Lily, and the Mother, Marshall is present for the birth of Barney's daughter in the series finale.In the episode "Slap Bet", Barney loses a bet with Marshall and agrees to let Marshall slap him five times at random occasions "throughout eternity", which is later extended to eight. Marshall administers these slaps in the episodes "Slap Bet", "Stuff", "Slapsgiving", "Slapsgiving 2: Revenge of the Slap", "Disaster Averted", "Slapsgiving 3: Slappointment in Slapmarra", and "The End of the Aisle".

Robin Scherbatsky
During the first season, Marshall and Robin are friends, but he nevertheless advises Ted to forget about his unrequited love for her. When the two finally get together, however, he accepts her as a permanent part of the group, and continues to do so after they break up. When Robin quits her job, he and Lily take her in to live with them, and do so again in the seventh season after Robin breaks up with her boyfriend, Kevin (Kal Penn). Marshall asks her to move out when it becomes clear that Ted has unrequited feelings for her. However, he has an ongoing bet with Lily that Robin and Ted will end up together, which he eventually wins in 2030.
A running joke throughout the series is that Marshall believes that Robin is attracted to him, despite all evidence to the contrary.
When Robin  briefly leaves the group in 2016, as portrayed in the series finale, Marshall resents her for it, but nevertheless welcomes her back four years later to celebrate Ted's wedding.
Passage 4:
Johan Ludvig Heiberg (poet)
Johan Ludvig Heiberg (14 December 1791 – 25 August 1860), Danish poet, playwright, literary critic, literary historian son of the political writer Peter Andreas Heiberg (1758–1841), and of the novelist, afterwards the Baroness Gyllembourg-Ehrensvärd, was born in Copenhagen. He promoted Hegelian philosophy and introduced vaudeville to Denmark.

Biography
In 1800 his father was exiled and settled in Paris, where he was employed in the French foreign office, retiring in 1817 with a pension. His political and satirical writings continued to exercise great influence over his fellow countrymen. Johan Ludvig Heiberg was taken by K.L. Rahbek and his wife into their house, Bakkehuset (now part of the Danish Maritime Safety Administration). He was educated at the University of Copenhagen, and his first publication, entitled The Theatre for Marionettes (1814), included two romantic dramas. This was followed by Christmas Jokes and New Years Tricks (1816), The Initiation of Psyche (1817), and The Prophecy of Tycho Brahe, a satire on the eccentricities of the Romantic writers, especially on the sentimentality of Ingemann. These works attracted attention at a time when Baggesen, Oehlenschläger and Ingemann possessed the popular ear, and were understood at once to be the opening of a great career.
In 1817 Heiberg took his degree, and in 1819 went abroad with a grant from government. He proceeded to Paris, and spent the next three years there with his father. In 1822 he published his drama Nina and was made professor of the Danish language at the University of Kiel, where he delivered a course of lectures, comparing the Scandinavian mythology as found in the Edda with the poems of Oehlenschläger. These lectures were published in German in 1827.
In 1825 Heiberg came back to Copenhagen for the purpose of introducing the vaudeville on the Danish stage. He composed a great number of these vaudevilles, of which the best known are King Solomon and George the Hatmaker (1825); April Fools (1826); A Story in Rosenborg Garden (1827); Kjøge Huskors (1831); The Danes in Paris (1833); No (1836); and Yes (1839). He took his models from the French theatre, but showed extraordinary skill in blending the words and the music; but the subjects and the humour were essentially Danish and even topical.

Meanwhile he was producing dramatic work of a more serious kind; in 1828 he brought out the national drama of Elves' Hill (Danish: Elverhøi); in 1830 The Inseparables; in 1835 the fairy comedy of The Elves, a dramatic version of Tieck's Elfin; and in 1838 Fata Morgana. In 1841 Heiberg published a volume of New Poems containing A Soul after Death, a comedy which is perhaps his masterpiece, The Newly Wedded Pair, and other pieces.
He edited from 1827 to 1830 the famous weekly, the Flyvende Post (The Flying Post), and subsequently the Interimsblade (1834–1837) and the Intelligensblade (1842–1843). In his journalism he carried on his warfare against the excessive pretensions of the Romanticists, and produced much valuable and penetrating criticism of art and literature. In 1831 he married the great actress Johanne Luise Pätges (1812–1890), the author of some popular vaudevilles.
Heiberg's scathing satires, however, made him very unpopular; and this antagonism reached its height when, in 1845, he published his malicious little drama of The Nut Crackers. Nevertheless he became in 1849 director of the Royal Theatre in Copenhagen. He filled the post for seven years, working with great zeal and conscientiousness, but was forced by intrigues from without to resign it in 1856.
Heiberg died at Bonderup Manor, near Ringsted, on 25 August 1860.

Philosophy
Heiberg's speculative philosophy had relation to Hegel and Kierkegaard, and dealt a lot with the perception of God. His work Om Vaudevillen (1826) has been described as an attack to Dilettantism, "a curse on the age's materialism or atheism in art, a critical attack on the prevailing aesthethics of content," as well as "a strong defense of true science," lifelong study, free laughter, satire and comedy. Heiberg tried to reconcile Hegel's philosophy with Christianity, for instance, equating Hegel's concept of Spirit, with the view of the Christian God; at other times he seems to prefer the Christian doctrine.

Legacy
His influence upon taste and critical opinion was greater than that of any writer of his time, and can only be compared with that of Holberg in the 18th century. Most of the poets of the Romantic movement in Denmark were very grave and serious; Heiberg added the element of humour, elegance and irony. He had the genius of good taste, and his witty and delicate productions stand almost unique in the literature of his country. First of all he created a Danish critical tradition based upon firm and consequent principles of aesthetics breaking with the often extremely subjective and occasional value judgements of his predecessors. In return he has not avoided being regarded a conservative formalist and elitist by posterity and the reaction against his line was already started by Georg Brandes who was, however, affected by his school too. At any rate most of later Danish critics had to make up their mind about his ideas.
The poetical works of Heiberg were collected, in 11 vols, in 1861–1862, and his prose writings (11 vols) in the same year. The last volume of his works contains fragments of autobiography. See also Georg Brandes, Essays (1889). For the elder Heiberg see monographs by Thaarup (1883) and by Schwanenflügel (1891).
Passage 5:
The Crisis and a Crisis in the Life of an Actress
The Crisis and a Crisis in the Life of an Actress (Danish: Krisen og en Krise i en Skuespillerindes Liv) was a series of articles written by the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard in 1847 and published in the Danish newspaper Fædrelandet (The Fatherland) in 1848 under the pseudonym Inter et Inter.
The actress in question is Johanne Luise Heiberg, the wife of Johan Ludvig Heiberg, although she is not mentioned by name in the articles. Johanne Luise was a popular and leading lady of the Danish stage at the time and she had written an autobiographical reflection of her life, in which she praised Kierkegaard for his insight into her art.
The Crisis discusses the life of a young actress' metamorphosis into a mature refined woman. When the actress first starts out in her career she is admired for her beauty, youthfulness, and novelty. Years later, although these accidental attributes are fading, she is still a talented actress, and she now possesses the experience and reflection needed for a truly aesthetic performance. The theme revolves around the transitions from the aesthetic stage of life to the ethical stage of life, and how a person in the ethical stage of life is still capable of aesthetic enjoyment.
Although Kierkegaard was writing philosophical-religious works at this time, such as Works of Love, Kierkegaard wrote The Crisis to show that a religious author can still write and appreciate aesthetic concerns. "The world is indeed so weak that, when it believes that a person who proclaims the religious is incapable of the aesthetic, it overlooks the religious".
Passage 6:
Peter Ostrum
Peter Gardner Ostrum ( OH-strəm; born November 1, 1957) is an American veterinarian and former child actor, whose only film role was as Charlie Bucket in the 1971 motion picture Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory. 
Ostrum was 12 years old when selected by talent agents for Willy Wonka.  Though he enjoyed the experience of shooting the film, he opted not to sign a three-film contract when it was over.  After eschewing a career in film and theater, Ostrum became reluctant to speak about his one starring role.  In 1990, he began an annual tradition of speaking to schoolchildren about the film, and he became a subject of interest again when the 2005 film Charlie and the Chocolate Factory was released to theaters.
Ostrum became interested in his family's horses when he returned from shooting Willy Wonka, and was particularly influenced by the veterinarian who tended to them.  He received a Doctorate of Veterinary Medicine from Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine in 1984.  As of 2021, Ostrum practiced and lived in Glenfield, New York with his wife Loretta (née Lepkowski), having raised two children.

Personal life
Peter Gardner Ostrum was born in Dallas on November 1, 1957, to Dean Gardner Ostrum (1922–2014) and Sarepta Mabel (née Pierpont; 1922–2021).  He is the youngest of four children.  Ostrum was living in Cleveland at age twelve—a city of which he was described as a native by MSNBC, and later attended North Hunterdon Regional High School in Hunterdon County, New Jersey.Ostrum married Loretta M. Lepkowski in 1987 or 1988.  The couple have two children, Helenka and Leif, with the latter following his father onto the stage as the leading actor in several South Lewis Central School musicals.  Ostrum and his wife lived in Glenfield, New York as recently as 2021.

Willy Wonka
Ostrum was in the sixth grade and performing at the Cleveland Play House children's theater, when he was noticed by talent agents who were searching nationwide for an actor to portray Charlie Bucket in Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory.  The agents took Polaroid photos of Ostrum and recorded him reading from the original novel, then returned to New York.  Two months later Ostrum was called to New York for a screen test where he sang "My Country, 'Tis of Thee", and a month after that he was contacted and given ten days to prepare to leave for filming.  Ostrum left for Munich on August 10, 1970.

In 2000, Ostrum recalled that shooting Willy Wonka in Munich was "sort of like being an exchange student for five months".  Fond memories of his five months in West Germany included watching the construction of Olympiapark, for the 1972 Summer Olympics, and working with Gene Wilder and Jack Albertson.  As Ostrum had not worked in film before, Wilder took it upon himself to instruct the young actor in the business.  Ostrum would later describe Wilder as a quirky yet gentle gentleman who "treated people with respect and dignity."  The bond that developed between the two actors was such that, even though they never saw each other again after filming Wonka, Ostrum described Wilder's 2016 death as "like losing a parent".Ostrum was tutored on-set for three hours a day, though sometimes only for 30–60 minutes at a time.  Though in his audition he had been assured that his singing would probably be cut and dubbed, it was Ostrum's own singing voice that made it to the screen—albeit significantly cut.  In a 2011 interview, Ostrum told the story of how director Mel Stuart gave him a clapperboard from the film, and later on asked him how he got it because he had forgotten that he had done so; it is Ostrum's only souvenir from the set.After he finished shooting Willy Wonka, the then 13-year-old Ostrum declined David L. Wolper's offer of a three-film contract.  The teenager confided in Frawley Becker, his Willy Wonka dialogue coach, that he turned down the contract to retain "the freedom to choose what he played, and in what picture."  (Ostrum and Becker remained friends through at least 1996.)  In January 2018, Ostrum said he sometimes misses acting—though not its hurry-up-and-wait nature—but feels he dodged having to make the transition from child- to adult-actor.As of January 2018, Ostrum still received US$8–9 (equivalent to $9–10 in 2022) of royalty payments about every three months.

Lasting effect
In his senior year, Ostrum was involved in film class and, at the interest of one of his instructors, looked back into theater and acting.  After auditioning for, but not landing, several roles (including for Alan Strang in Equus on Broadway), Ostrum decided not to pursue it further.  After putting his short film career behind him, Ostrum declined reporters and interviews, preferring not to speak on the subject; "I wanted people to judge me on who I was, not what I’d done".  For some time, Ostrum even lied and told people that his brother, and not he, had starred in the film.  It took Ostrum years after moving to Lowville, New York, before he told anybody there about his one-time stardom; even his wife Loretta did not know about his role until he warned her about it just before she met his mother.Since 1990, Ostrum has spoken to students at Lowville Academy once a year—on the last day of school, as a special treat—about his experience in Willy Wonka as well as his work in veterinary medicine.  The students chiefly ask about the film's special effects, and Ostrum describes to them "what happened to Veruca, how did Violet blow up like a blueberry, how did Charlie fly with Grandpa Joe, all those types of questions."  Ostrum also accepted an invitation to appear at the 2018 Snowtown Film Festival in Watertown, New York, answering audience questions after a screening of the film; "it’s in my backyard—it's become a popular event in January and I like to support local events."  Ostrum said of the 2018 event that he enjoyed re-watching the film, and that people ask him "great questions."  Ostrum has been called "the most famous man in Lowville", where the local video rental shop twice wore out its VHS copy of Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory.In the run-up to the release of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory in 2005, Ostrum garnered a spate of attention that included seeing the film in New York City with NPR as well as being included in VH1's list of "100 Greatest Kid Stars" (at 78th).  On the new film, Ostrum quoted fellow Wonka actor Julie Dawn Cole, saying that "It's sort of like going back to a house that you once lived in and it's been redecorated."  Ultimately, the media attention was so pervasive that Ostrum stopped answering his phone, and requested "please, no more interviews."In January 2009, Ostrum teamed up with Dunkin' Donuts to hand out free rides on the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) at South Station in Boston; Ostrum's participation connected the MBTA's CharlieCards he was handing out with his portrayal of Charlie Bucket in Willy Wonka.  The promotion also gave out one "golden ticket", worth unlimited rides on MBTA and unlimited Dunkin' Donuts coffee for 2009.In October 2000, Ostrum and some of his co-stars from the film were scheduled to record an audio commentary for a special edition DVD.  In a 2010 interview, Wonka co-star Denise Nickerson (Violet Beauregarde) revealed that Ostrum had agreed to join her and Paris Themmen (Wonka's Mike Teevee) for a reunion commemorating the 40th anniversary of the film's release in 2011.

Veterinary career
Soon after Ostrum returned home from filming Willy Wonka, his family acquired a horse; while the teenaged Ostrum was interested in the horse, it was the animal's veterinarian that left a lasting impression on him.  Taking a hiatus from school between high school and college, Ostrum groomed horses and worked at the Delaware Equine Center in Pennsylvania.  Ostrum contemplated a return to Hollywood, and even visited California for a week to "test the waters" there.  He ultimately decided to pursue a degree in veterinary medicine instead, feeling that he would forever berate himself if he did not.  In 1984, Peter Ostrum received his Doctorate of Veterinary Medicine from Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine.As of June 2022, Ostrum worked in Lowville, New York both as a veterinarian with the Countryside Veterinary Clinic (working mainly with horses and cows) and as a managing partner with Dairy Health & Management Services.  Ostrum also took part in Veterinarians on Call, a Pfizer-funded video series that highlighted the work of large animal veterinarians.
Passage 7:
Cooper Glacier
The Cooper Glacier (85°30′S 164°30′W) is a tributary glacier, 15 nautical miles (30 km) long, flowing northeast between Butchers Spur and the Quarles Range to enter the south side of Axel Heiberg Glacier, in the Queen Maud Mountains. It was discovered by R. Admiral Byrd on several plane flights to the Queen Maud Mountains in November 1929, and named by him for Kent Cooper, an official of the Associated Press.
Passage 8:
Peter Shockey
Peter Shockey (born 1955) is an American filmmaker and screenwriter.
He has received a New York City Film Festival award for his television film Life After Life (1992). In addition, both he and his works have appeared on talk shows and television shows such as Oprah and the 700 Club.
Peter co-wrote the book Journey of Light with Stowe D. Shockey and its focus is to implement her experience as an abused child in order to help others. Peter and Stowe both live in Nashville, Tennessee.
Currently, he is working as a professor of Media Production & Writing classes at Webster University in Tashkent.

Books
Journey of Light: Stories of Dawn after Darkness (co-wrote with Stowe D. Shockey, Doubleday, 2007. ISBN 978-0-385-50126-2
Passage 9:
A Little Bit of Love (Andreas Johnson song)
"A Little Bit of Love" is a song written by Andreas Johnson and Peter Kvint, and performed by Andreas Johnson at Melodifestivalen 2007. The song participated in the semifinale in Gävle on 24 February 2007, heading directly to the finals inside the Stockholm Globe Arena on 10 March 2007, finishing second. On 5 March 2007 the single was released. The single peaked at third position at the Swedish singles chart, and became a major radio hit both at Sveriges Radio and the commercial stadions.
The song also charted at Svensktoppen, entering the chart on 8 April 2007 on 2nd position. On 15 April 2007 the song topped the chart. On 19 August 2007 the song was at Svensktoppen for 20th and final time. before getting knocked out the upcoming week.

Single track listing
A Little Bit of Love
A Little Bit of Love (PJ Harmony Remix Version)

Charts
Passage 10:
Eetookashoo Bay
Eetookashoo Bay is a waterway in Qikiqtaaluk Region, Nunavut, Canada. It is located at the northern end of Axel Heiberg Island between Cape Thomas Hubbard and Cape Stallworthy. The bay is named in honor of Eetookashoo (Itukassuk), one of the Inuit who had traveled with Frederick Cook and Donald Baxter MacMillan.
Passage 11:
Villa Foscari
Villa Foscari is a patrician villa in Mira, near Venice, northern Italy, designed by the Italian Renaissance architect Andrea Palladio. It is also known as La Malcontenta ("The Discontented"), a nickname which—according to a legend—it received when the spouse of one of the Foscaris was locked up in the house because she allegedly did not live up to her conjugal duty.

Architecture
The villa was commissioned by the brothers Nicolò and Alvise (Luigi) Foscari, members of a patrician Venetian family that produced Francesco Foscari, one of Venice's most noted doges. It was built between 1558 and 1560. It is located beside the Brenta canal and is raised on a pedestal, which is characteristic of Palladio's villas; this pedestal is more massive than most of Palladio's villas (the base is 11 feet (3.4 m) high, more than twice the height Palladio normally used) because it was not possible to construct a subterranean basement on the site.
The villa lacks the agricultural buildings which were an integral part of some of the other Palladian villas. It was used for official receptions, such as that given for Henry III of France in 1574. It has been proposed that the villa was the home of Portia called Belmont in The Merchant of Venice.Villa Foscari's thermal windows inspired the ones used on the façade of Villa Toeplitz in Varese.

Interior
The interior of the villa is richly decorated with frescoes by Battista Franco and Giambattista Zelotti.
Mythological scenes from Ovid alternate with allegories of the Arts and Virtues. As at other Palladian villas, the paintings reflect villa life in, for example, Astraea showing Jove the pleasures of the Earth. The frescoes have dulled over time, signs of the increasing threat that air pollution poses to works of art.

Recent history
The British travel writer Robert Byron visited the villa in 1933 and afterwards wrote that bon vivant Albert Clinton Landsberg had, nine years earlier, found the villa "at the point of ruin, doorless and windowless, a granary of indeterminate farm-produce. He has made it a habitable dwelling. The proportion of the great hall and state rooms are a mathematical paean." The villa had indeed been vacated in the early 19th century, the surrounding stables and other buildings had fallen apart and were demolished by Austrian troops during the 1848 uprisings. At the end of the 19th century however, banker Baron Frédéric Emile d'Erlanger, based in Paris and London, had found the house in the above described condition, then leased the villa from the Foscari family, and undertook some renovation work. Bertie Landsberg had purchased the villa in 1926, together with his friends Paul Rodocanachi and Catherine, Baroness d'Erlanger, the daughter-in-law of the former tenant. The new owners renovated the house and gardens and invited members of the high-society to lavish salons during summer seasons: choreographer Sergei Diaghilev, dancers Boris Kochno and Serge Lifar, writer Paul Morand, architect Le Corbusier, Winston Churchill, among others. Bertie Landsberg, issue of an originally Jewish banking family, as the Erlangers, fled the Italian Fascists in 1939 and only returned to the villa in 1947. Kate d'Erlanger moved to Beverly Hills. In 1965, the English architect Claud Phillimore, 4th Baron Phillimore (1911–1994) inherited the villa from Landsberg. He began restoration, but sold the house in 1973 to count Antonio ("Tonci") Foscari (b. 1938), a descendant of the former owners and professor for architecture and preservation. He and his wife, Barbara del Vicario, undertook a painstaking process of restoring it to its original grandeur. In 2012, Foscari wrote of the villa's renaissance.Since 1996 the building has been conserved as part of the World Heritage Site "City of Vicenza and the Palladian Villas of the Veneto". Today, the villa is open to the public for visits on a limited basis.

See also
Ca' Foscari
Palladian Villas of the Veneto
Palladian architecture
Passage 12:
André Duchesne
André Duchesne (French: [dyʃɛːn]; sometimes spelled Du Chesne, Latinized Andreas Chesneus, Andreas Quercetanus, or Andreas Querneus; May 1584 – 30 May 1640) was a French geographer and historian, generally styled the father of French history.
Duchesne was born in L'Île-Bouchard.  He was educated at Loudun and afterwards at Paris. From his earliest years he devoted himself to historical and geographical research, and his first work, Egregiarum seu selectarum lectionum et antiquitatum liber, published in his eighteenth year, displayed great erudition. He enjoyed the patronage of Cardinal Richelieu, a native of the same district with himself, through whose influence he was appointed historiographer and geographer to the king.He died in Paris in 1640, in consequence of having been run over by a carriage when on his way from the city to his country house at Verrières.

Works
Duchesne's works were very numerous and varied, and in addition to what he published, he left behind him more than 100 folio volumes of manuscript extracts now preserved in the Bibliothèque Nationale (L. Delisle, Le Cabinet des manuscrits de la Bibliothèque impériale, t. L, 333–334). Several of his larger works were continued by his only son François Duchesne (1616–1693), who succeeded him in the office of historiographer to the king.The principal works of André Duchesne are Les Antiquités et recherches de la grandeur et majesté des rois de France (Paris, 1609), Les Antiquités et recherches des villes, châteaux, &c., de toute la France (Paris, 1609), Histoire d'Angleterre, d'Ecosse, et d'Irelande (Paris, 1614), Histoire des Papes jusqu'à Paul V (Paris, 1619), Histoire des rois, ducs, et comtes de Bourgogne (1619–1628, 2 vols. fol.), Historiae Normanorum scriptores antiqui (1619, fol., now the only source for some of the texts), and his Historiae Francorum scriptores (5 vols. fol., 1636–1649).This last was intended to comprise 24 volumes, and to contain the narrative sources for French history in the Middle Ages; only two volumes were published by the author, his son François published three more, and the work remained unfinished. Besides these Duchesne published a great number of genealogical histories of illustrious families, of which the best is that of the house of Montmorency. His Histoire des cardinaux francais (2 vols. 101. 1660–1666) and Histoire des chanceliers et gardes des sceaux de France (1630) were published by his son François. André also published a translation of the Satires of Juvenal, and editions of the works of Alcuin, Abelard, Alain Chartier and Étienne Pasquier.

Les Antiquités et recherches de la grandeur et majesté des rois de France (Paris, 1609)
Les Antiquités et recherches des villes, châteaux, &c., de toute la France (Paris, 1609)
Histoire d'Angleterre, d'Écosse, et d'Irlande (Paris, 1614)
Bibliothèque des auteurs qui ont écrit l'histoire et la topographie de la France, 1618
Histoire des Papes jusqu'à Paul V (Paris, 1619)
Histoire des rois, ducs, et comtes de Bourgogne (1619–1628, 2 volumes fol.)
Grande Histoire de la Maison de Vergy, (Paris, 1625)
Annales Francorum Mettenses (Paris, 1626) also known as Annals of Metz.
Historiae Normanorum scriptores antiqui (1619)
Histoire de la Maison de Chastillon sur Marne, Paris, 1621
Historiae Francorum scriptores (5 volumes fol., 1636–1649)
Passage 13:
Margareta von Ascheberg
Margareta von Ascheberg (9 July 1671 – 26 October 1753) was a Swedish land owner, noble and acting regiment colonel during the Great Northern War.

Early life and marriage
Margareta von Ascheberg was the youngest child of Field Marshal Rutger von Ascheberg and Magdalena Eleonora Busseck. 
On 26 January 1691, she married colonel count Kjell Christopher Barnekow (d. 1700) in Malmö. As was the custom of the Swedish nobility as that time, she kept her name after marriage and style herself »Grevinnan Ascheberg» (Countess Ascheberg). The couple had four children. She accompanied her spouse on his military commissions: she gave birth to their youngest sons during the Bombardment of Brussels in 1695. 
At the outbreak of the Great Northern War, Kjell Christopher Barnekow was called to Sweden and appointed colonel of the Scanian dragoons, which he undertook to equip himself. However, he died very suddenly and unexpectedly of a fever 19 December 1700 before he had the time to fulfill his task.

Madame Colonel
As a widow, Margareta von Ascheberg was left with the responsibility of her four minor children and the management of their estates as well as the other responsibilities of her late spouse. This included the task of the command and equipment of his Scanian regiment. She was not freed from this responsibility, and the acting colonel Kr. A. v. Buchwaldt was appointed to see that she fulfilled her task. In the spring of 1702, she had performed the task of a colonel by having organized and equipped the regiment and appointed its officers ready for inspection by the royal command and ready to serve in the war. She also sat at the inspection office of the regiment when it was sent to war from Kristianstad. 
During the war, she took care of the continued equipment and affairs of the regiment, and exchanged letters with Charles XII of Sweden about its appointments and promotions. She was called "Coloneless" or Madame Colonel. She was admired for "The energy and care, with which she performed her unusual task, a circumstance, which in other cases would seem impossible for a woman".

Estate management
Margareta von Ascheberg was also given the responsibility of the estates of her spouse, including Vittskövle, Rosendal and Örtofta in Scania, Gammel-Kjöge on Själland, Ralsvik and Streu on Rügen, and she also added the estate of Ugerup in Scania to it. She herself inherited and acquired the additional estates of Eliinge, Sövdeborg and Tosterup. 
She was a very successful business person and land owner and recommended for her efficiency. She founded schools, hospitals and gave anonymous donations to the poor in the parishes of her estates, and in contrast to other contemporary land owners, such as the hated Christina Piper, she managed to make herself popular among her employees. She was called "A true mother of the household" and was admired for her "unusual accomplishment, which should not be interpreted dishonestly, as the whole of Scania can testify for it to be truthful". In the parish of Vittskövle, where she preferred to reside, "The Ascheberg woman" became a respected figure of folklore.

See also
Maria Sofia De la Gardie
Passage 14:
Hansen's problem
Hansen's problem is a problem in planar surveying, named after the astronomer Peter Andreas Hansen (1795–1874), who worked on the geodetic survey of Denmark. There are two known points A and B, and two unknown points P1 and P2. From P1 and P2 an observer measures the angles made by the lines of sight to each of the other three points.  The problem is to find the positions of P1 and P2. See figure; the angles measured are (α1, β1, α2, β2).
Since it involves observations of angles made at unknown points, the problem is an example of resection (as opposed to intersection).

Solution method overview
Define the following angles: 
γ = P1AP2, δ = P1BP2, φ = P2AB, ψ = P1BA.
As a first step we will solve for φ and ψ.
The sum of these two unknown angles is equal to the sum of β1 and β2, yielding the equation

  
    
      
        ϕ
        +
        ψ
        =
        
          β
          
            1
          
        
        +
        
          β
          
            2
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \phi +\psi =\beta _{1}+\beta _{2}.}
  A second equation can be found more laboriously, as follows.  The law of sines yields

  
    
      
        
          
            
              A
              B
            
            
              
                P
                
                  2
                
              
              B
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              sin
              ⁡
              
                α
                
                  2
                
              
            
            
              sin
              ⁡
              ϕ
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {AB}{P_{2}B}}={\frac {\sin \alpha _{2}}{\sin \phi }}}
   and

  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                P
                
                  2
                
              
              B
            
            
              
                P
                
                  1
                
              
              
                P
                
                  2
                
              
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              sin
              ⁡
              
                β
                
                  1
                
              
            
            
              sin
              ⁡
              δ
            
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {P_{2}B}{P_{1}P_{2}}}={\frac {\sin \beta _{1}}{\sin \delta }}.}
  Combining these, we get

  
    
      
        
          
            
              A
              B
            
            
              
                P
                
                  1
                
              
              
                P
                
                  2
                
              
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              sin
              ⁡
              
                α
                
                  2
                
              
              sin
              ⁡
              
                β
                
                  1
                
              
            
            
              sin
              ⁡
              ϕ
              sin
              ⁡
              δ
            
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {AB}{P_{1}P_{2}}}={\frac {\sin \alpha _{2}\sin \beta _{1}}{\sin \phi \sin \delta }}.}
  Entirely analogous reasoning on the other side yields

  
    
      
        
          
            
              A
              B
            
            
              
                P
                
                  1
                
              
              
                P
                
                  2
                
              
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              sin
              ⁡
              
                α
                
                  1
                
              
              sin
              ⁡
              
                β
                
                  2
                
              
            
            
              sin
              ⁡
              ψ
              sin
              ⁡
              γ
            
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {AB}{P_{1}P_{2}}}={\frac {\sin \alpha _{1}\sin \beta _{2}}{\sin \psi \sin \gamma }}.}
  Setting these two equal gives

  
    
      
        
          
            
              sin
              ⁡
              ϕ
            
            
              sin
              ⁡
              ψ
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              sin
              ⁡
              γ
              sin
              ⁡
              
                α
                
                  2
                
              
              sin
              ⁡
              
                β
                
                  1
                
              
            
            
              sin
              ⁡
              δ
              sin
              ⁡
              
                α
                
                  1
                
              
              sin
              ⁡
              
                β
                
                  2
                
              
            
          
        
        =
        k
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {\sin \phi }{\sin \psi }}={\frac {\sin \gamma \sin \alpha _{2}\sin \beta _{1}}{\sin \delta \sin \alpha _{1}\sin \beta _{2}}}=k.}
  Using a known trigonometric identity this ratio of sines can be expressed as the tangent of an angle difference:

  
    
      
        tan
        ⁡
        
          
            
              ϕ
              −
              ψ
            
            2
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              k
              −
              1
            
            
              k
              +
              1
            
          
        
        tan
        ⁡
        
          
            
              ϕ
              +
              ψ
            
            2
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \tan {\frac {\phi -\psi }{2}}={\frac {k-1}{k+1}}\tan {\frac {\phi +\psi }{2}}.}
  Where 
  
    
      
        
          k
          =
        
        
          
            
              sin
              ⁡
              ϕ
            
            
              sin
              ⁡
              ψ
            
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {k=}{\frac {\sin \phi }{\sin \psi }}.}
  
This is the second equation we need. Once we solve the two equations for the two unknowns 
  
    
      
        ϕ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \phi }
   and 
  
    
      
        ψ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \psi }
  , we can use either of the two expressions above for 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              A
              B
            
            
              
                P
                
                  1
                
              
              
                P
                
                  2
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {AB}{P_{1}P_{2}}}}
   to find P1P2 since AB is known.  We can then find all the other segments using the law of sines.

Solution algorithm
We are given four angles (α1, β1, α2, β2) and the distance AB.  The calculation proceeds as follows:

Calculate 
  
    
      
        γ
        =
        π
        −
        
          α
          
            1
          
        
        −
        
          β
          
            1
          
        
        −
        
          β
          
            2
          
        
        ,
        
        δ
        =
        π
        −
        
          α
          
            2
          
        
        −
        
          β
          
            1
          
        
        −
        
          β
          
            2
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \gamma =\pi -\alpha _{1}-\beta _{1}-\beta _{2},\quad \delta =\pi -\alpha _{2}-\beta _{1}-\beta _{2}.}
  
Calculate 
  
    
      
        k
        =
        
          
            
              sin
              ⁡
              γ
              sin
              ⁡
              
                α
                
                  2
                
              
              sin
              ⁡
              
                β
                
                  1
                
              
            
            
              sin
              ⁡
              δ
              sin
              ⁡
              
                α
                
                  1
                
              
              sin
              ⁡
              
                β
                
                  2
                
              
            
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle k={\frac {\sin \gamma \sin \alpha _{2}\sin \beta _{1}}{\sin \delta \sin \alpha _{1}\sin \beta _{2}}}.}
  
Let 
  
    
      
        s
        =
        
          β
          
            1
          
        
        +
        
          β
          
            2
          
        
        ,
        
        d
        =
        2
        arctan
        ⁡
        
          [
          
            
              
                
                  k
                  −
                  1
                
                
                  k
                  +
                  1
                
              
            
            tan
            ⁡
            (
            s
            
              /
            
            2
            )
          
          ]
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle s=\beta _{1}+\beta _{2},\quad d=2\arctan \left[{\frac {k-1}{k+1}}\tan(s/2)\right]}
   and then 
  
    
      
        ϕ
        =
        (
        s
        +
        d
        )
        
          /
        
        2
        ,
        
        ψ
        =
        (
        s
        −
        d
        )
        
          /
        
        2.
      
    
    {\displaystyle \phi =(s+d)/2,\quad \psi =(s-d)/2.}
  
Calculate  or equivalently  If one of these fractions has a denominator close to zero, use the other one.

See also
Solving triangles
Snell's problem
Passage 15:
Amundsen Icefall
Amundsen Icefall (85°28′S 166°42′W) is a steep and turbulent icefall where the Axel Heiberg Glacier descends from the polar plateau between Mount Fridtjof Nansen and Mount Don Pedro Christophersen, in the Queen Maud Mountains of Antarctica. Named by the Southern Party of the New Zealand Geological Survey Antarctic Expedition (1961–62) for Captain Roald Amundsen, who ascended Axel Heiberg Glacier en route to the South Pole in 1911.