Passage 1:
Aguamarina
Aguamarina, is a 1997 American telenovela produced by Telemundo. Was led by Ruddy Rodríguez and Leonardo García with antagonistic action of Mara Croatto.

Cast
Passage 2:
Tourism in Nepal
Tourism is the largest industry in Nepal and its largest source of foreign exchange and revenue. Possessing eight of the ten highest mountains in the world, Nepal is a hot spot destination for mountaineers, rock climbers and people seeking adventure. The Hindu and Buddhist heritage of Nepal and its cool weather are also strong attractions.

Overview
Mount Everest, the highest mountain peak in the world (8848.88m above the sea level), is located in Nepal. Mountaineering and other types of adventure tourism and ecotourism are important attractions for visitors. The World Heritage Site Lumbini, birthplace of Buddha, is located in the south of the West region of Nepal (which despite the name is located in the center of the country) and there are other important religious pilgrimage sites throughout the country. The tourist industry is seen as a way to alleviate poverty and achieve greater social equity in the country. Tourism brings $471 million a year to Nepal.

According to statistics of 2019, there was a growth rate of 2.1%. According to statistics from Nepal Tourism Board (NTB), a total of 1,197,191 foreign tourists entered the country in 2019 as compared to 1,173,072 in 2018. The government of Nepal declared 2011 to be Nepal Tourism Year, and hoped to attract one million foreign tourists to the country during that year. The government of Nepal has also declared Lumbini Tourism Year 2012 to promote Lumbini. The government of Nepal has also recently declared Visit Nepal 2020 with the aim of bringing in two million tourists by 2020.
According to the statistics of 2017, most of the tourists comes to Nepal for observing the pilgrimage sites and heritages sites of the country i.e. 70.3%, then 34.5% visit for pleasure, 13.1% of them visit Nepal for mountaineering and trekking and remaining 18.0% of the tourists arrive for official activities, conferences, business etc.
The tourism industry of Nepal was affected after the destructive earthquake in 2015, by the series of earthquakes in 2015. In 2020, the tourism sector in Nepal collapsed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Religious sites
The majority religion in Nepal is Hinduism, and the Pashupatinath Temple, the world's largest temple of Shiva, located in Kathmandu, attracts many pilgrims and tourists. Other Hindu pilgrimage sites include the temple complex in Swargadwari in the Pyuthan district; Janaki Mandir in Janakpurdham in Mithila region; Lake Gosainkunda near Dhunche; the temples at Devghat; Kalinchowk Bhagwati Temple in Dolakha ;Manakamana temple in the Gorkha District; Pathibhara near Phungling; and Mahamrityunjaya Shivasan Nepal in Palpa District where the biggest metallic idol of Lord Shiva is located. 
Buddhism is the largest minority religion. The World Heritage Site at Lumbini, which is traditionally considered to be the birthplace of Gautama Buddha, is an important pilgrimage site. Another prominent Buddhist site is Swayambhunath, the Monkey Temple, in Kathmandu.
Dang valley is a sacred place for Hindus as well as other religions. Kalika and Malika Devi in Chhillikot hill, Ambekeshawori temple, Krishna temple, Dharapani temple are among the sacred places in Dang district. Chillikot hill is also a good place for sightseeing and also an ancient palace of a king.
Muktinath is a sacred place for Hindus as well as Buddhists. The site is located in Muktinath Valley, Mustang district.
Badimalika temple in Bajura District, Gadhimai Temple in Bara district, Halesi Mahadeva temple in Khotang. Bhageshwori Mandir in Nepalgunj. Bhagbhati mandir in Rajbiraj are also some popular temples in Nepal.

Wilderness tourism
According to Nepal's Ministry of Tourism, major tourist activities include wilderness and adventure activities such as mountain biking, bungee jumping, rock climbing and mountain climbing, trekking, hiking, bird watching, flights, paragliding and hot air ballooning over the mountains of Himalaya, exploring the waterways by raft, kayak or canoe and jungle safaris especially in the Terai region. International elephant polo is played at  Chitwan National Park.

Statistics
In 2007, the number of international tourists visiting Nepal was 526,705, which was an increase of 37.2% compared to the previous year. In 2008, the number of tourists decreased by 5% to 500,277. In 2018, the number of international tourists arrival was 1.17 million. In 2019, the number increased to 1.19 million. In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had a major impact on tourism in Nepal, with tourist arrivals dropping to just 230,085 with a decrease of over 80.7% and further decrease by 30% in 2021 with an total number of 150,962. Pokhara is one of the main tourist destinations in Nepal.
In 2008, 55.9% of the foreign visitors came from Asia (18.2% from India), while Western Europeans accounted for 27.5%, 7.6% were from North America, 3.2% from Australia and the Pacific Region, 2.6% from Eastern Europe, 1.5% from Central and South America, 0.3% from Africa and 1.4% from other countries.
Foreign tourists visiting Nepal in 2008 stayed in the country for an average of 11.78 days which has now increased to 15.1 days and 15.5 days in 2020 and 2021 respectively

Arrivals
This statistic shows the number of international tourist arrivals by year, 1993–2021:

Arrivals by country
Most tourists arriving to Nepal on short-term basis were from the following countries of nationality:

See also
Visa policy of Nepal
Passage 3:
Mariett Dances Today
Mariett Dances Today (German: Heut tanzt Mariett) is a 1928 German silent romance film directed by Frederic Zelnik and starring Lya Mara, Fred Louis Lerch and Harry Halm. It was shot at the Staaken Studios in Berlin and on location in the Swiss resort of St. Moritz.
It was made by the German subsidiary of First National Pictures. The film's sets were designed by the art directors Andrej Andrejew and Erich Zander.

Cast
Lya Mara as Mariett
Fred Louis Lerch as Robert van Dammen
Harry Halm as Ein junger Maler
Ralph Arthur Roberts as Prinz Beaufort
Kurt Gerron as Der Besitzer der Bar, Brigon
Jakob Tiedtke as Der Bürgermeister
Sophie Pagay as Die Haushälterin
Karl Harbacher as Der Schuhmacher
Josefine Dora as Seine Mutter
Fritz Kampers
Ivan Koval-Samborsky
Adele Sandrock
Franz Schafheitlin

Plot summary
The story begins like a fairytale: A stork, hunting for food in a Dutch village pond, picks out a baby girl and drops her in the cradle in the mayor's house. The mayor, who is a practical man, connects his saw and the baby's cradle with a string, and with every pull of the saw he rocks little Mariett – which is the name of the tiny foundling – to her sleep.
As the years go by, Mariett grows up to be a merry young woman, albeit a bit naïve, but full of joie de vivre and very fond of dancing. When on her 16th birthday a covert admirer gives her a pair of silk shoes she hurries to the village church to pray to Saint Joseph for a fitting pair of silk stockings. Her prayer, though, is overheard by two affluent young men. The one of them is a painter, copying one of the church windows; he is accompanied by his friend Robert van Dammen. They are very much amused about the girl's simple-mindedness and they plan to hoax her. With her father's consent – who is paid 300 guilder – Mariett is drugged and in her dreams she sees herself as a princess. When she awakes in Robert's palais the men proceed with their hoax, with Robert himself acting as “princess” Mariett's driver. Three days later, however, the fun is over and Mariett is told the truth. She is deeply upset about being had in such a way. So she decides to leave the village to seek her fortune in the big wide world.
Riding a train on her journey she plays her harmonica and dances. A bar operator who watches Mariett is delighted by her unsophisticated naivety, but also her outstanding entertaining talent. So he hires her as a show act for his Paris establishment. And soon the simple Dutch girl rises to be a number one star of the Paris show scene.
Meanwhile the two jokesters have heard about Mariett's racy success. As Robert has fallen in love with her he tries to find the way into her heart, what he undertakes on the skiing slopes and toboggan runs of Saint Moritz. On New Year's Eve Mariett and Robert are reconciled at last.

Production notes
Heut' tanzt Mariett was filmed between 28 November 1927 and 4 February 1928 in Staaken Studios (Berlin) and the location shots were done at Saint Moritz (Switzerland).
On 10 March 1928 the motion picture passed censorship and was first released five days later in Beba-Palast Atrium, Berlin.
The movie was cleared for minors. It consisted of nine acts, the length of the reel being 2783 meters.
Passage 4:
Indru Nee Nalai Naan
Indru Nee Naalai Naan (transl. Today you, tomorrow me) is a 1983 Indian Tamil-language film, directed by Major Sundarrajan. The film stars Sivakumar, Jaishankar, Lakshmi and Sulakshana. It is based on the novel Thookku Mara Nizhalil by C. A. Balan. The film was released on 12 August 1983.

Plot
Marudhachalam marries Papathi, who prefers his brother Pazhaniappan. Papathi and Valli are childhood friends like sisters. Then Pazhaniappan marries Valli and has a child. Suddenly Marudhachalam dies before she gets to be with him intimately. She becomes a widow and raises Pazhaniappan's child. Now Papathi feels differently about Pazhaniappan and when Valli is gone, to have the second child, she asks Pazhaniappan to marry her. They both are on the way to get married, while they both change their minds. She goes back to being a widow and Pazhaniappan goes to see his wife and child. When Valli finds out, she tries to kill Papathi. Pazhaniappan tries to stop it, but Valli gets upset that he defends Papathi and she runs and falls into a well, hence committing suicide. Pazhaniappan goes to jail, stating he killed Valli as he feels guilty. He gets the death penalty. Papathi comes to see Pazhaniappan in the jail and he tells Papathi to marry someone else, but she refuses and commits suicide in front of Pazhaniappan.

Cast
Sivakumar as Pazhaniappan
Jaishankar as Marudhachalam
Lakshmi as Papathi
Sulakshana as Valli
Thengai Srinivasan as Doctor
Manorama as Kamalam
Major Sundarrajan as a police officer

Production
Indru Nee Naalai Naan was based on the novel Thookku Mara Nizhalil by C. A. Balan which was inspired from true events of his life. It was directed by Major Sundarrajan, his second directorial after Kalthoon (1982) and was produced by his younger brother Sampath alongside Pala. Karuppiah. The film was launched on 12 October 1982. The song "Kaangeyam Kaalaigale" was shot at Aathur Road, Salem. The scenes were also shot at Salem Prison with special permission. L. R. Shanmugam's home at Salem was used as Sivakumar's house for the film.

Soundtrack
Music was composed by Ilaiyaraaja. The song "Ponvaanam Panneer Thoovuthu" is set in the Carnatic raga Gourimanohari, and follows a 78 time signature. Writer Suka said the song uses the "spirit of the rain" to evoke love.

Release and reception
Indru Nee Naalai Naan was released on 12 August 1983. Jayamanmadhan of Kalki praised the performances of the actors and Ilaiyaraaja's music and concluded by praising Sundarrajan for properly narrating a story but felt the end monologue could have been avoided.
Passage 5:
Mara Triangle
The Mara Triangle is the southwestern part of the Maasai Mara National Reserve, Kenya, and is managed by the not-for-profit organisation The Mara Conservancy on behalf of Trans-Mara County Council.
Divided from the rest of the Maasai Mara National Reserve by the Mara River, the Mara Triangle is less visited and less crowded, with a fairly good concentration of wildlife all year-round including the Big Five (lion, leopard, elephant, buffalo and rhino) and diverse plains 'game' such as cheetah, hyena, jackal, wildebeest, zebra, giraffe, waterbuck and many other species.
The Mara Triangle is one of the areas where herds of the Great Migration enter and exit the Maasai Mara National Reserve from the Serengeti National Park in Tanzania, making it one of the prime viewing locations for this wildlife spectacle. Crossings of the Mara River are world-renown for being particularly dramatic, featuring in many wildlife documentaries such as Wild Africa and Big Cat Diary.

Geography
The Mara Triangle is one third of the Maasai Mara National Reserve, with an area of 510 km². It has two natural borders and one political; to the southwest is the Tanzania/Serengeti border, to the east is the Mara River, and to the northwest is the Oldoinyio Escarpment (also called Oloololo or Siria Escarpment).
The landscapes of the Mara Triangle include riverine forest, red oat grasslands, volcanic hills and the 400-metre high Oloololo Escarpment.

Tourism
The Mara Triangle is managed by the Mara Conservancy, under contract by the Trans-Mara county council, a local non profit organisation formed by the local Maasai people, and contains a number of anti-poaching units.
There are two permanent lodges inside the Mara Triangle - Mara Serena and Little Governors.  There are a few camps on the park's periphery which offer game drives inside the park: Angama Mara, Bateleur Camp, Kichwa Tembo, Kilima Camp, Mara Engai Wilderness Lodge, Mara Siria, and Mpata Safari Club.
It is also possible to take your own camping gear and stay at one of the public or private campsites and a number of seasonal mobile camps are set up to coincide with the arrival of the megaherds of the Great Migration each year.
The Mara Triangle is easy to access by plane with Angama Mara Airfield, Kichwa Tembo, Mara North, Musiara and Serena airstrips, and with daily scheduled flights connecting it with other parks and reserves in Kenya, the Kenyan coast (Mombasa, Diani, Malindi) and Nairobi (Jomo Kenyatta and Wilson airports). The Mara Triangle is also reachable by road.
Passage 6:
Ann Mara
Ann Mara (June 18, 1929 – February 1, 2015) was an American businesswoman, socialite, philanthropist, the wife  and later widow of Wellington Mara, and the matriarch of the Mara family, which includes New York Giants CEO John Mara, and her granddaughters, actresses Rooney Mara and Kate Mara.

Personal life
Mara was born Ann Maria Teresa Mumm in Manhattan, New York City, the daughter of Olive (née DuBord) and George Mumm. She was of German, French-Canadian, and Irish ancestry. She married Wellington Mara (1916–2005) in 1954 and had eleven children.Ann Mumm met Wellington Mara by chance when a woman fainted at a 7:30 a.m. Mass that they both regularly attended. Both Ann and Wellington rushed to her side to help. Three of their early dates took place at Yankee Stadium, Madison Square Garden, and the Fordham gymnasium. After that Ann and Wellington were married, in 1954. They took their honeymoon in Southern California. Ann and Wellington had 11 children (7 girls and 4 boys) and 42 grandchildren. All their girls attended Convent of the Sacred Heart.
Her husband is considered  to have been one of the most influential figures in the history of the National Football League as the owner of the New York Giants. Ann Mara had been called the "First Lady of Football". As a philanthropist, she donated money to various causes. In November 2014 she dedicated the opening of a new building for the San Miguel Academy for children at risk, which was built through the NFL Snowflake Foundation.

Media attention
Mara was an active member of the Giants community. In 2012 she gained media attention after having an argument with Terry Bradshaw.

Death
Mara was in good health until she fell on ice when she was fetching her newspaper outside of her Harrison home. Mara's housekeeper usually went to get the paper but on that day Mara went to get it herself. She died from pneumonia two weeks after her fall, on February 1, 2015. She was 85 years old. She was remembered with a moment of silence during Super Bowl XLIX; also, the Giants wore a patch on the right side of their uniforms, near the shoulders during the following season in her memory, with the letters "ATM" in black on a white circle background.
Passage 7:
The Trial of Madame X
The Trial of Madame X is a 1948 British drama film directed by Paul England and starring England and Mara Russell-Tavernan. It is based on the 1908 play Madame X by the French playwright Alexandre Bisson (1848-1912).

Plot
A woman is thrown out of her home by her jealous husband and sinks into depravity. Twenty years later, she finds herself accused of murder for saving her son, who does not know who she is. He finds himself defending her without knowing her background.

Cast
Mara Russell-Tavernan as Jacqueline
Paul England as Perrisard
Frank Hawkins as La Roque
Eddie Leslie as Raymond
Hamilton Deane as Noel
Hamilton Keene as Louis
Jean Le Roy as Madeleine

See also
Madame X

External links
The Trial of Madame X at IMDb
Passage 8:
Serengeti District
Serengeti District is one of the seven districts of Mara Region of Tanzania. Its administrative centre is the town of Mugumu. It is home to part of the world-famous Serengeti National Park a UNESCO World Heritage Site and contains one of the western gates to the park.According to the 2012 Tanzania National Census, the population of Serengeti District was 249,420.

Transport
There are no paved roads connecting Serengeti District with the rest of the country. The unpaved trunk road T17 from Musoma to Arusha passes through the district from west to east.

Administrative subdivisions
As of 2012, Serengeti District was administratively divided into 28 wards.

Wards
Passage 9:
The Girl from Capri
The Girl from Capri (German: Das Mädel von Capri) is a 1924 German silent comedy film directed by Frederic Zelnik and starring Lya Mara, Ulrich Bettac and Robert Scholz. It premiered in Berlin on 10 July 1924.

Cast
Lya Mara
Ulrich Bettac
Robert Scholz
Hermann Böttcher
Julia Serda
Passage 10:
Rhône-Alpes
Rhône-Alpes (French pronunciation: [ʁon alp] (listen)) was an administrative region of France. Since 1 January 2016, it is part of the new region Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. It is located on the eastern border of the country, towards the south. The region was named after the river Rhône and the Alps mountain range. Its capital, Lyon, is the second-largest metropolitan area in France after Paris. Rhône-Alpes has the sixth-largest economy of any European region.

Geography
Rhône-Alpes is located in the southeast of France. The neighboring (pre-2016) regions are Bourgogne (Burgundy) and Franche-Comté to the north, Auvergne to the west, Languedoc-Roussillon to the southwest, and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur to the south. The eastern part of the region is in the Alps, and borders Switzerland and Italy. The highest peak is Mont Blanc, on the French-Italian border. The central part of the region comprises the river valleys of the Rhône and the Saône. The confluence of these two rivers is at Lyon. The western part of the region contains the start of the Massif Central mountain range. The region also borders or contains major lakes such as Lake Geneva (Lac Léman) and Lake Annecy. The Ardèche flows through the southwest portion of the region, where it has carved the deepest gorge in Europe.
As with the rest of France, French is the only official language of the region. Until the mid-20th century, Arpitan was widely spoken in the whole region, while many of the inhabitants of the south spoke varieties of Occitan; both are in steep decline in this region. There are immigrant populations from Armenia, Italy, North Africa, Poland and Portugal, and elsewhere.
Rhône-Alpes is made up of the following departments:

Ain (01). Capital: Bourg-en-Bresse
Ardèche (07). Capital: Privas
Drôme (26). Capital: Valence
Isère (38). Capital: Grenoble
Loire (42). Capital: Saint-Étienne
Rhône (69). Capital: Lyon
Savoie (73). Capital: Chambéry
Haute-Savoie (74). Capital: AnnecyAnd, since 2015, Metropolis with territorial collectivity statute:

Metropolis of Lyon (69). Capital: Lyon

Lakes
There are six main lakes in Rhône-Alpes:

Lac de Paladru
Lac d'Aiguebelette
Lac du Bourget
Lac d'Annecy
Lac de Nantua
Lac Léman

Prefectures
Prefectures listed in descending order of size:

Lyon (Rhône)
Grenoble (Isère)
Saint-Étienne (Loire)
Valence (Drôme)
Chambéry (Savoie)
Annecy (Haute-Savoie)
Bourg-en-Bresse (Ain)
Privas (Ardèche)

History
Although there have been people in Rhône-Alpes since pre-historic times, the earliest recorded settlers of the region were the Gauls (Celts). Cities such as Lyon were founded by them and the region traded with both northern and southern Europe. Most of the area became part of Roman territory during the invasion of Celtic Gaul led by Julius Caesar and was at various times part of the regions of Lugdunensis and Gallia. Lyon itself became a major city in the Roman Empire.
The region, excepting Savoy, was part of the Merovingian and Carolingian Kingdoms before becoming a royal territory under the Capetians. As it became a royal territory early on in French history, its cultural, political and economic influences and developments paralleled those of greater France. (See History of France.)

Transportation
Rhône-Alpes is a major European transit hub, linking northern France and Europe to the Mediterranean area. Millions travel along its motorways in summertime from Paris to holidays at the sea. The E15 Euroroute (Britain to Spain) runs through the region. There are international airports at Lyon, Grenoble and Saint-Étienne and many other minor airports and airfields.
The region is also a transport hub for the rail network with the TGV running through Lyon from Paris and the north, to the Mediterranean. A high-speed rail link is planned from Lyon to Turin.

Economy
Rhône-Alpes is a prosperous region which can be seen by its per capita GDP of about €31,231 ($40,000), which is higher than the French average, and an average income of €35,910 ($50,246), its economy second in size only to Île-de-France in France. This can be attributed to the diversity of the production in different sectors. The region is one of the Four Motors for Europe.

Industry, in particular:
Light engineering and high-tech
Mechanical engineering in the area of Annecy
Precision machining in the area of Cluses
Services, in particular:
High-tech industries, nanotechnology, biotechnology especially in Grenoble with 62,300 jobs in these sectors thanks to the presence of the Polygone Scientifique, Inovallée and some large companies as Schneider Electric.
Optic and design in Saint-Étienne
Tourism with the Alps (for skiing), Lyon and Grenoble (for culture) and the Ardèche (adventure sports/camping) particularly popular
Education, with major universities in Lyon, Grenoble and Saint-Étienne.In the past mining, especially coal mining was an important sector, particularly around Saint-Étienne, although this has declined since the 1970s.
The area of the region that lies close to Switzerland has an economy linked to that of Geneva. This area forms a hinterland for the Geneva hub.The Triangle of Lyon, Saint-Étienne and Grenoble contribute a GDP of €145 billion to the region. Add Valence to it, it is almost €150 billion. In addition, Lyon alone has a Gross Metropolitan Product of about €85 billion.
The region has been part of Alps–Mediterranean Euroregion since 10 July 2007.

Major cities
Winter Olympics
Rhône-Alpes region has hosted the Winter Olympics three times; in 1924 at Chamonix, 1968 at Grenoble, and 1992 at Albertville.

Tourism
Situated between Paris and the Côte d’Azur, on the border with both Switzerland and Italy, and offering access to two international airports (Lyon and Geneva), rail connections and a vast motorway network, the Rhône-Alpes region is at "the crossroads of Europe".
Boasting eight natural parks and peerless sites such as Mont Blanc and the Gorges de l’Ardèche, Rhône-Alpes offers a wide range of different landscapes: mountains, vineyards and gentle valleys, fields of lavender and olive groves.
Every form of sport is readily available, set against a natural backdrop: skiing, hiking, mountain biking or even paragliding and canoeing. Besides hosting three Winter Olympics games due to its being the largest ski area in the world, Rhône-Alpes is the second most important golfing region in France with over 60 courses.

Enthusiasts of art and culture will not be disappointed by the region's Villes d’Art: Lyon, which is classified by UNESCO as a World Heritage site, Annecy, Grenoble, Chambéry, and Saint-Étienne.
And last but not least, connoisseurs of good food and wine will be spoilt for choice by the range of local specialties available to taste along with a Beaujolais or a Côtes du Rhône, and by the sheer number of famous restaurants (with Paul Bocuse at the top of the list) in the region.

Gastronomy
Lyon is noted as a gastronomic centre of France and specialities served in its traditional bouchons include Lyon sausage, sophisticated salami (known there as "rosette"), tripe and quenelles. In the east of the region the food has an Alpine flavour with dishes such as fondue, raclette common, gratin dauphinois and gratin savoyard. The region is also famous for its Bresse poultry and the many varieties of cheese including Tomme de Savoie, Bleu de Bresse, Reblochon, Saint-Marcellin and Vacherin du Haut-Doubs.Wines in this region include Beaujolais, Côtes du Rhône and Savoy wine. Chartreuse liqueur is made in the region.
Lyon is the home of very typical and traditional restaurants: the bouchons. Bouchons are usually convivial restaurants serving local dishes, and local wines.
Lyon is famous for its morning snacks, the mâchons, made up of local charcuterie, especially the rosette and usually accompanied by Beaujolais red wine. Traditional local dishes include saucisson de Lyon (sausage), andouillette, coq au vin, esox (pike) quenelle, gras double (tripe cooked with onions), salade lyonnaise (lettuce with bacon, croûtons and a poached egg), marrons glacés and cardoon au gratin.

See also
List of châteaux in Rhône-Alpes
Transport in Rhône-Alpes
Passage 11:
Trans Mara District
Trans Mara District was an administrative district in the former Rift Valley Province of Kenya. Its capital town was Kilgoris. The district had a population of 170,591 (1999 census) and an area of 2,846 km² [1]. It was created in 1994, when Trans Mara District was split from Narok District.
The Mara Triangle (part of the Masai Mara reserve) is located in Trans-Mara District. The district had only one local authority, Trans Mara county council. Kilgoris Constituency was the only constituency of the district.
Under the 2010 Constitution of Kenya and the new devolved form of government, the Trans Mara area was merged into Narok County.  It continues as the Kilgoris Constituency electorally and administratively.
Its name refers to the territory "across the Mara River" from the perspective of the rest of Narok County.  The term "Trans Mara" is still used to refer to the geographical area.

External links
Aridland.go.ke
Reliefweb.int
Passage 12:
A Ghost Story
A Ghost Story is a 2017 American supernatural drama film written and directed by David Lowery and starring Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara, with Will Oldham, Liz Cardenas Franke, Sonia Acevedo, and Rob Zabrecky in supporting roles. It is about a man who becomes a ghost and remains in the house he shared with his wife.
The film had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival on January 22, 2017, and was released by A24 in the United States on July 7, 2017. It received positive reviews from critics.

Plot
A woman mentions to her musician husband that she moved a lot as a child and took to hiding little notes wherever she lived. The couple are in disagreement about moving away. Occasionally they hear strange noises and one night there is a loud bang, the source of which they are unable to define.
Shortly afterwards the husband is killed in a car accident a short distance from the house. At the hospital his wife views his body, covering it with a sheet before departing. The husband awakens and, still covered by the sheet, wanders through the hospital. He is invisible to the living, as he is now a ghost. A door of light opens before him but he makes no attempt to approach it and it closes.
The ghost walks home and sees Linda, his landlord, drop off a pie. When the wife gets home she sits on the floor and eats the pie until she vomits.
Unable to communicate, the ghost watches while the wife grieves and then begins to proceed with her life. In the house next door he sees a ghost covered by a flower-print sheet who communicates that it is waiting for someone, though it does not remember who.
The wife comes home with a man whom she kisses in the doorway, and the ghost makes the lights flicker and knocks books from a shelf. Later, the wife listens to one of her husband's songs and recalls when he played her the recording for the first time. She moves away but first writes a short note and hides it in a gap between some molding, which she paints over. The ghost picks at the paint but he is unable to reach the note.
A Spanish-speaking mother moves into the house with her young son and daughter. The ghost watches them eat, play the piano and celebrate Christmas. The children begin to sense his presence and become frightened. One night, the ghost knocks a framed photo of the family off the piano and smashes dishes in the kitchen. The family moves out and the ghost again scrapes at the paint.
At a party thrown by the next occupants a woman says she has stopped working on her novel and a man responds by musing about what the point is of any creative pursuit, even one as uplifting and universally known as Beethoven's 9th Symphony, given that the sun will eventually engulf Earth and the universe will eventually rip itself apart. The partygoers notice the lights flicker.
The house is abandoned and becomes derelict and the ghost's efforts to retrieve the note are interrupted by a bulldozer crashing through a wall. The house next door is also torn down and the flower-print ghost communicates that it does not think whoever it is waiting for is coming, and it disappears from beneath its sheet. A skyscraper is built where the house was and, when the work is done, the ghost looks at a futuristic cityscape from a balcony before jumping off the ledge.
The celestial sphere rotates in reverse, and the ghost finds himself in a field in the 19th century with a man who is driving stakes into the ground. The man's wife and three daughters arrive in a covered wagon, and the family prepares to build a house. The youngest daughter writes a note and hides it under a rock while humming the tune of the husband's song. Native Americans attack and kill the family, and the ghost watches the girl's corpse decay.
Back in the house, which is empty except for the piano, the ghost sees himself and his wife enter and look around, and his life in the house repeats itself. The husband's resistance to the wife's desire to move causes tension in their relationship and, the night before his death, he finally acquiesces. Hearing this, the ghost sits down heavily at the piano, causing the bang that had earlier startled himself and his wife. Later, the ghost watches his earlier ghost-self watch the wife leave the house for the last time. He retrieves the note and, upon reading it, disappears, his empty sheet collapsing to the floor.

Cast
Production
Development
David Lowery had wanted to make a film featuring a man in a rudimentary ghost costume "for a while", telling Comingsoon.net: "I just loved that image. I love taking something that is understood to be funny or charming or sweet or naive and instilling it with some degree of gravity." When he and his wife got in an argument about moving back to Texas, he began to write down the argument "thinking about my own attachment to physical spaces." After he thought to combine this with the idea about the ghost costume, he came up with the basic concept for the movie fairly quickly and began to write the screenplay in the spring of 2016. Lowery also used the film to work through what he termed "An existential crisis" brought on by reading an article about the possibility of a catastrophic earthquake, saying: "I was not feeling optimistic about the future of mankind. I felt the world was on its way to ending. The film became my way of dealing with those issues." The film's atypical 1.33:1 aspect ratio was chosen by Lowery partially because he thought it was thematically appropriate: "It’s about someone basically trapped in a box for eternity, and I felt the claustrophobia of that situation could be amplified by the boxiness of the aspect ratio."The ghost costume that was ultimately designed for the film ended up being more complicated than Lowery had anticipated. At first, the filmmakers attempted to simply use a normal bed sheet, but they found that even a king-sized sheet does not fully cover an adult male. The final costume required Affleck to wear certain other garments beneath the fabric to achieve the desired look, and the filmmakers found they had to resort to some "puppeteering" to keep the eyes in place. Beyond the practical constraints of the costume, Lowery also found that it impeded Affleck's ability to act, noting: "every unique physical trait as a human being was pronounced and exaggerated by this sheet over his head." This did not give Lowery the results he wanted, and he eventually solved the problem by reducing the amount Affleck moved, so "it became a matter of patience and posture and moving very specifically, slowly and rigidly."

Filming
Principal photography began in June 2016. The majority of the film takes place within a single house, which was chosen by Lowery because it closely resembled the first house he lived in with his wife. As the house was about to be demolished, the film crew were allowed to use it for free. Some shots of the ghost, specifically those done during pickups or reshoots, do not feature Affleck, instead replacing him with the film's art director, David Pink, who was found to have a similar build.As the filmmakers did not know how the final product would turn out, the film was shot in secret and not officially announced until November 2016, at which point it was confirmed that Mara and Affleck were the leads. It was later revealed that Kesha would appear in the film in a cameo role.

Music
Daniel Hart composed the score for the film, as he had for all of Lowery's previous features and one short film. A soundtrack of the score was released by Milan Records on July 7, 2017.

Release
Prior to the film's world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival on January 22, 2017, A24 acquired its worldwide distribution rights. The company released the film in the United States on July 7, 2017.

Box office
The film earned $104,030 from four theaters during its opening weekend (an average per-location gross of $26,008), finishing in 26th place at the American box office. By the end of its theatrical run, it had grossed $1,596,371 domestically and $355,312 internationally, for a worldwide total of just under $2 million.

Reception
Critical response
On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 91% based on 285 reviews, with an average score of 8/10; the website's "critics consensus" reads: "A Ghost Story deftly manages its ambitious themes through an inventive, artful, and ultimately poignant exploration of love and loss." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average rating of 84 out of 100 based on reviews from 46 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".Peter Debruge of Variety gave the film a positive review, writing: "While Lowery's actual method of delivery may not be scary, it's sure to haunt those who open themselves up to the experience." David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter also gave the film a positive review, writing: "A poetic meditation on time, memory and spiritual connection that is utterly true to its title." Eric Kohn of IndieWire gave the film an "A" rating, calling it "an extraordinary mood piece that amounts to [Lowery's] best movie yet." Gary Thompson of the Philadelphia Inquirer gave the film two and a half stars out of four and wrote: "The movie is trippy and almost willfully opaque—all I can say for sure is I left A Ghost Story feeling full."Richard Brody, writing for The New Yorker, included A Ghost Story in his list of the 27 best films of the decade.

Accolades
On September 9, 2017, the film won three awards at the 43rd Deauville American Film Festival: the Revelation Prize, the Critics Prize and the Jury Prize; additionally, David Lowery was nominated for the Grand Special Prize. On October 14, the film won two awards at the Sitges Film Festival: Best Photography and the Carnet Jove Jury Award. At the Fantasia Film Festival, the film won the Camera Lucida Award.
Passage 13:
Mara Marini
Mara Marini is a Canadian actress best known for her reoccurring role as Brandi Maxxxx in the NBC comedy series Parks and Recreation. She has performed in several independent films and plays in the Los Angeles theater scene, as well as making other television appearances.

Early life
Mara Marini was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and had wanted to be an actress since the age of four. She was accepted to the University of Hawaii for marine biology, but ultimately attended York University in Toronto. After graduating, she auditioned for and was accepted to the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in Los Angeles, where she moved to study acting.

Career
Marini appeared in a number of independent films starting in the mid-2000s, particularly horror films, including In The Dark (2004), Slaughterhouse Phi: Death Sisters (2006), Darkworld (2006), Blood Legend (2006), Gothic Vampires from Hell (2007) and Munch (2008). She has also experimented with stand-up comedy.Marini, who had some theater experience in Canada, started performing on stage in the Los Angeles area, and became an active member of The Road Theatre Company. Among her credits with that company in 2007 was "Biblio," a Wayne Peter Liebman one-act play about a girl whose psychological issues invoke a barrage of images, including a Marilyn Monroe character portrayed by Marini. Also in 2007, she appeared in "Bitch", a dark comedy by Susan Rubin that played at the Bootleg Theater. Marini portrayed a giddy receptionist who has an affair with one of the main characters, a hedonistic public relations firm partner. In 2008, she appeared in a Road Theatre production of "The Friendly Hour" at the Road Theatre, playing one of a group of South Dakota housewives whose life stories are told over a 73-year period.Marini appeared in the 2008 horror short film Deader Living Through Chemistry, a horror short film about zombies that appeared on the DVD release of George A. Romero's film Diary of the Dead. In 2009, Marini performed in a 15-week run of "Bram Stoker's Dracula" at the NoHo Theatre in Los Angeles, directed by Ken Sawyer. She portrayed Mina Harker, although on rare occasions she served as an understudy for the Lucy Westenra role. Marini received positive reviews; in a review of one of her Lucy performances, Culture Spot LA writer Julie Riggott said she "made a convincing transformation from meek innocent to voluptuous vampire". Robert Machray of BlogCritics.org wrote she "should get an award for her bloodcurdling screams".Marini had a supporting role in the 2009 film Ballistica, and played a Texan art dealer in the film The Back-Up Bride (2010). She appeared in the film Psychosomatika (2010) after director Jeff Graham, who directed her in Blood Legend, contacted her and asked her to audition for a role. Also in 2010 she appeared in comedy sketches for the E! late night talk show Chelsea Lately, and a commercial for the website Vevo with American Idol runner-up Adam Lambert. Marini filmed a number of television pilots around this time, including ones for the Spike and the Oxygen channels.Marini was cast in a guest appearance in the NBC comedy series Parks and Recreation as Brandi Maxxxx, a pornographic film actress. Marini had previously participated in a workshop with Dorian Frankel, the show's casting director, before auditioning for the Brandi Maxxxx role. Marini was concerned she didn't do her best at the audition, but was nevertheless chosen for the role. She first appeared in the third season episode "Jerry's Painting", which originally aired on April 28, 2011. In the episode, Brandi appears on a television news program along with Leslie Knope (Amy Poehler) in which Leslie is defending a painting that depicts her as a centaur with her breasts exposed. While Leslie defends the artistic merit of the painting, Brandi defends the painting while simultaneously comparing it to pornography, unwittingly undermining Leslie's arguments. Marini later reprised the role in the fourth season episode "The Debate", where Brandi Maxxxx ran for city council against Leslie and participated in a political debate against Bobby Newport (Paul Rudd) and two other candidates.Marini returned to the stage in 2011, appearing in the Laurel Ollstein comedy "Esther's Moustache" at the Studio/Stage Theatre in Los Angeles. The play was about a female artist who draws magazine cartoons of beautiful goddesses, and Marini played Lilith, a sex-obsessed imaginary goddess who appears before the protagonist as her alter ego. She received positive reviews for the performance. LA Weekly writer Steven Leigh Morris called her a "scene-stealer", and the Los Angeles Times called her "an amusingly empty-headed statuesque siren". Natalia Evdikimova of Culver City News wrote that Marini was "superbly cast" and "hard to ignore", adding: "Mara Marini is everything that a sex-loving goddess should be: bossy, sassy and provocative". In 2011, Marini also appeared in the ABC legal drama series The Whole Truth, and that show's casting director called her for auditions in several other television roles.Marini appeared in the 2012 film Sushi Girl, reuniting Marini with director Kern Saxton, who directed her in Deader Living Through Chemistry. Marini also portrayed Gloria, who she described as a "Marilyn Monroe-type scarlet-wannabe", in the 2013 film Rock and Roll: The Movie. She also has filmed performances for the upcoming films Alongside the Night and King of the Road.

Filmography
Passage 14:
Philippine television drama
Philippine television drama, also known as teledrama, Filipino telenovelas or P-drama, is a form of melodramatic, serialized, televised fiction in the Philippines. Teledrama is derived from two Filipino words: "tele", short for "telebisyón" (television) and "drama" (drama series).
Teledramas share characteristics with and have roots similar to soap operas and telenovelas. They have evolved into a genre with unique characteristics, however, and often reflect Filipino social reality. Teledramas are aired in the afternoon and prime time, five days a week. Their audience crosses age and gender lines, and they have the highest advertising rates in the Philippine television industry. Series last from three months to a year or longer, depending on ratings.
Philippine TV dramas also include serials and anthologies, usually shown weekly. These dramas have a finite number of episodes and usually last one season, again depending on ratings.

History
1940s-1980s
Soap operas in the Philippines began with Gulong ng Palad (Wheel of Fortune) on radio in 1949, and the genre expanded into television during the early 1960s. The first Philippine TV soap opera was Hiwaga sa Bahay na Bato (Mystery at the Stone House) in 1963, produced by ABS-CBN. Larawan ng Pag-ibig (Picture of Love), Prinsipe Amante (Prince Amante), and a number of others followed.Gulong ng Palad, co-written by Loida Virina, was the longest-running radio serial and ran until the mid-1980s. Its TV version starred Marianne Dela Riva and Ronald Corveau and introduced young actors, including Romnick Sarmenta. Veteran actress Caridad Sanchez enhanced the series' popularity.
The government closed several networks (including ABS-CBN) during the 1972–1986 martial-law period, leaving RPN and GMA the country's only two commercial television networks. The lack of a diverse media base aided the emergence of nationwide satellite broadcasting, and competition between the two networks spurred afternoon and prime-time sitcoms and serials. Philippine TV schedules resembled those in the U.S., with networks scheduling shows in daily time blocks instead of separate weekday and weekend programming.
RPN produced María Flordeluna, starring Janice de Belén. Its cast also included Dindo Fernando and actress-director Laurice Guillen. GMA produced Anna Liza, starring Julie Vega. Before the introduction of a TV ratings system in the Philippines during the 1990s, the shows were rivals. Anna Liza, canceled in 1985 after Vega's death, had an unfinished storyline and a two-hour special in 1986.

1990s
Until the late 1980s, Philippine television dramas were broadcast during the afternoon. ABS-CBN resumed operations after the end of the Marcos dictatorship in 1986, and regained its audience lead by the end of the decade. During the early and mid-1990s, local sitcoms dominated Philippine television with the rise of ABS-CBN's Palibhasa Lalake, Home Along Da Riles, Oki Doki Doc and the political satire Abangan Ang Susunod Na Kabanata and GMA Network's Bubble Gang. International television swept the Philippines, beginning with Mexican telenovelas.
The decade is considered the golden age of Philippine television drama. Most, such as Agila, Anna Luna, Valiente and Mara Clara, were aired on ABS-CBN.
The most popular was the Las Tres Marias trilogy, produced by Televisa and starring Thalía. Marimar and Maria la del Barrio were broadcast in prime time on RPN, and Maria Mercedes was broadcast on ABS-CBN). Major networks began to reschedule Filipino telenovelas in prime time to attract increased advertising revenue. By the mid-1990s, teledramas surpassed sitcoms in Filipino prime-time television.
One of the country's best-known TV series was Mara Clara, which aired from 1992 to 1997. The longest-running teledrama in the post-martial-law era, it had frequent time-slot changes before settling into the standard 7-8:00 pm prime-time block by late 1995. In mid-1997, Mula sa Puso (another ABS-CBN series) saw the rise of Claudine Barretto. Barretto played the heiress Via in the two-year soap; Rico Yan and Diether Ocampo were her leading men, and Princess Punzalan played Selina (the series' most influential character). Mula Sa Puso was the country's first middle-class primetime series, differing from the telenovelas with protagonists from the lower socioeconomic classes.
GMA retained and popularized its afternoon dramas, such as 1995–1997's Villa Quintana (with Donna Cruz, Keempee de Leon and Isabel Rivas); it was followed by 1997–1998's Ikaw na Sana, with Angelu de Leon and Bobby Andrews. Both were moved to prime time.

2000s
Philippine television dramas evolved into teleserye, a portmanteau of the Filipino words telebisyon ("television") and serye ("series"). The term originated with the ABS-CBN drama Pangako Sa 'Yo, airing from 2000 to 2002 and starring Jericho Rosales and Kristine Hermosa, and the rivalry between actresses Eula Valdez and Jean Garcia. Pangako Sa'Yo, the Philippines' first teleserye, was considered a turning point in Philippine television because of its production and fast-paced, multiple-arc plotlines which distinguished it from telenovelas. Broadcast in the Americas, Africa and Asia, it remains the most successful Philippine television series worldwide. At the end of its run in 2002, Pangako Sa 'Yo had the highest-rated series-finale episode of a Philippine show. Kay Tagal Kang Hinintay, which ended in 2003, was the Philippines' first series which was a finalist in the Best Drama Series category of the 2003 International Emmy Awards.
ABS-CBN's 2004's Marina popularized the fantasy of most Filipino teleseryes. GMA Network's political drama Kung Mawawala Ka examined corruption, starring Eddie Garcia; it ran from 2001 to 2002, and received an award from the Philippine Movie Press Club (PMPC).
Sana'y Wala Nang Wakas, aired between 2003 and 2004, was the world's first drama series to allow viewers to choose a story's ending by texting. A contemporary ABS-CBN teleserye, Basta't Kasama Kita, starred Judy Ann Santos and Robin Padilla; notable for its depiction of the National Bureau of Investigation, it was the first Filipino series to broadcast a live series-finale episode in 2004. In 2004, GMA Network overtook ABS-CBN in popularity when it introduced an all-fantaserye prime-time lineup featuring female-lead shows such as Encantadia and Mulawin. GMA gained a ratings foothold with Darna, starring Angel Locsin.
The Philippines emerged as one of the world's largest television-drama-producing nations in the middle of the decade. International hits included ABS-CBN's 2006 Gulong ng Palad, starring Kristine Hermosa and TJ Trinidad, which was carried on TFC. A 2007 remake of Maria Flordeluna, which had aired on RPN-9 during the 1970s and 1980s, starred Eliza Pineda; the 93-episode series received the 2008 PMPC Star Award for Best Television Series.
TV adaptations of films included ABS-CBN's Panday (starring Jericho Rosales and Heart Evangelista), Mga Anghel na Walang Langit and Kampanerang Kuba, starring Anne Curtis. The "sineserye" genre was introduced with Bituing Walang Ningning, starring Sarah Geronimo and Angelika de la Cruz.
2005 marked the start of domination of religious-oriented teleseryes, and trend of airing family-oriented drama series produced by ABS-CBN's Dreamscape Entertainment on series based on Fernando Poe Jr.'s movies with Mga Anghel na Walang Langit which lasted for 210 episodes from May 9, 2005, to February 2006. Religious teleseryes continued to dominate on the following years and decades.
Late in the decade, GMA-7 and ABS-CBN became rivals. GMA aired its 2007 remake of the international telenovela MariMar. Three ABS-CBN series became popular: the remake of the 1977–1985 soap opera Gulong ng Palad, the teleserye Sa Piling Mo and the series Maging Sino Ka Man—the most popular teleserye internationally after Pangako Sa'Yo.
ABS-CBN produced its most expensive series, Lobo, in 2008; it starred Piolo Pascual and Angel Locsin—the first Filipino nominated for an International Emmy for a lead role. I Love Betty La Fea, a Filipino remake of the Colombian telenovela Yo soy Betty, la fea, was broadcast that same year; it was the most successful Philippine remake of a Latin telenovela since GMA Network's Marimar remake the year before.

2010s
ABS-CBN and GMA Network both claimed to be the Philippines' most popular network. GMA Network began appealing to viewers in Mega Manila during the mid-2000s; ABS-CBN's prime-time shows attracted viewers in other parts of the country, particularly Visayas and Mindanao. Philippine media experts attributed the trend to ABS-CBN's return to Filipino programming.
The 2010s featured two successful teleseryes (Dahil May Isang Ikaw and May Bukas Pa). Dahil May Isang Ikaw began during the previous decade and ended on January 15, 2010. Religious teleseryes continued dominating television from the late 2000s since the premiere of Mga Anghel na Walang Langit on May 9, 2005. Among these religious teleseryes aired during the 2010s include May Bukas Pa, 100 Days to Heaven, Oh My G!, and Nathaniel, all of which were aired on ABS-CBN.
With the earlier success of the 2007 remake of Maria Flordeluna and the 2010 remake of Mara Clara (which introduced Julia Montes and Kathryn Bernardo), ABS-CBN popularized the revival of teen-themed telenovelas. Mara Clara's success inspired a remake of 1997's Mula sa Puso. In 2011, a number of actors moved between ABS-CBN and GMA Network. Both networks' hold on prime-time television was challenged by TV5's teleserye Babaeng Hampaslupa.
Teleseryes began to include storylines reflecting contemporary Philippine controversy. ABS-CBN's 2012 Walang Hanggan addressed adultery, while the network's 2012–2013 series Ina, Kapatid, Anak explored surrogate motherhood.
GMA Network premiered the big-budget historical drama series Amaya, starring Marian Rivera; Rivera also appeared in Temptation Of Wife, the Filipino version of a popular Korean series, with Dennis Trillo. Trillo later appeared in the 2013 teleserye My Husband's Lover, the Philippines' first gay-themed prime-time series.
ABS-CBN's 2014 series, The Legal Wife, was followed by the 2015 remake of Pangako Sa'Yo, starring Kathryn Bernardo and Daniel Padilla. The 2015 teleseryes Bridges of Love was broadcast as Puentes de Amor; the first Philippine drama aired in Latin America, it premiered on April 25, 2016, on Panamericana Televisión in Peru. The 2017–2018 series Wildflower was the first Philippine prime-time teleserye to explore nepotism, human rights abuses and mental illness.
The decade marked the renewed popularity of long-running dramas after the early 2000s. May Bukas Pa, which premiered in the previous 2000s decade on February 2, 2009 and ended in the 2010s decade on February 5, 2010, ran for 1 year and 3 days. Be Careful With My Heart aired for 2 years from 2012 to 2014. from 2014 to 2016, GMA broadcast The Half Sisters. ABS-CBN's afternoon teleserye Doble Kara ran between 2015 and 2017. Ang Probinsyano, starred by Coco Martin, attracted national attention for depicting the Philippine Drug War and the Philippine National Police despite renewed MTRCB censorship, ran for 7 years from September 28, 2015 and ended in the 2020s decade on August 12, 2022, and currently holds the title for being the country's longest-running drama series since June 26, 2020 which surpassed the five-year run 1992–1997's Mara Clara. GMA Network dominated the late afternoon between 2016 and 2018 with its teleserye Ika-6 na Utos. Kadenang Ginto, also aired on ABS-CBN, premiered on October 8, 2018, and ended in the next decade on February 7, 2020.
Live teleserye finales returned for the first time since GMA's 2007 remake of Marimar. ABS-CBN's On the Wings of Love starred James Reid and Nadine Lustre. Born for You was the first musical teleserye since ABS-CBN's 2006 TV version of Bituing Walang Ningning.
ABS-CBN's series 2019 military drama The General's Daughter was replaced by The Killer Bride, which has been praised for depicting the Duterte administration.

2020s
Teleserye production was suspended In 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Interest in boys' love series developed after the Thai series 2gether: The series aired on ABS-CBN's Kapamilya Channel and blocktime agreement with ZOE Broadcasting Network through A2Z.On June 26, 2020, the action drama series Ang Probinsyano surpassed the 1992–1997 series Mara Clara upon airing its 1,166th episode, with the former now the longest-running drama series on Philippine television since the said date.
Domination of religious-oriented drama series continued throughout the 2020s decade, with teleseryes belonging to this genre that aired in the 2020s are Huwag Kang Mangamba topbilled by The Gold Squad (Andrea Brillantes, Seth Fedelin, Kyle Echarri, and Francine Diaz), Maria Clara at Ibarra, and FPJ's Batang Quiapo.
After 7 years of airing, Ang Probinsyano ended on August 12, 2022, with 1,696 episodes and was replaced with the 2022 version of Darna, marking the change in ABS-CBN's primetime slot after its news program TV Patrol that was not seen since the start of airing of the said action drama series on September 28, 2015.

Impact
Philippine TV drama became popular during the early 2000s in Asia, Africa and Filipino communities in North America. Teleseryes have evolved from the telenovelas on which they were based. Philippine teleseryes have also attracted audiences in Indonesia, Malaysia and China. Often dubbed into local languages, they are sometimes shown with English and other foreign subtitles.
ABS-CBN and GMA were among the first Asian television producers to export dramas with a universal message, reflecting the reality of Filipino and other Asian societies. Pangako Sa 'Yo is the Philippines' most successful TV series worldwide. Before leading the Chinese television ratings during the mid-2000s, the series was seen by over one billion viewers in Southeast Asia and Africa. ABS-CBN introduced its International Sales website, providing access to its shows. The network shows Sana Maulit Muli (Taiwan), Lobo (dubbed as She-Wolf: The Last Sentinel), Tayong Dalawa, Dahil May Isang Ikaw, Kahit Isang Saglit, Katorse, Mara Clara, Magkaribal, Be Careful With My Heart (Vietnam) and Walang Hanggan were exported. They were followed by Ina, Kapatid, Anak, May Bukas Pa, Forevermore, Till I Met You, Wildflower and Ang Probinsyano.
GMA Network has the highest-rated pilot episodes with Darna and Encantadia in 2005, and made fantaserye a popular genre. The network produced Boys Next Door, a teen melodrama which was the first Philippine television series aired in South Korea. The 2007 Philippine adaptation of MariMar, GMA's most successful domestic television series, was also aired in Thailand, Malaysia, China, Singapore, Indonesia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya and Hawaii. Other GMA shows, such as Habang Kapiling Ka, Kahit Kailan, Bakekang, Muli, Impostora, Mga Mata ni Anghelita, Dyesebel and Encantadia, are still broadcast elsewhere in Asia and Africa.
Ang Probinsyano has had a wide-ranging effect on Philippine pop culture and society. Called the Pambansang Teleserye, the series has been nominated for and received a number of awards The show is widely regarded for tackling timely issues, and has generated controversy for its negative portrayal of the government and its agencies. It was defended, with viewers saying that the government should take heed. The series has been considered a kingmaker, with a high endorsement value in the 2019 midterm elections, and is a desirable platform for actors wishing to run for public office. A party list with the show's name, endorsed by series leads Coco Martin and Yassi Pressman, finished fifth in 2019 and won a seat in the House of Representatives. The series' lead character, Cardo Dalisay, has been called "steadfast and incorruptible". Ang Probinsyano is popular, and has been credited with reviving the action genre in film and television. Netflix streams the show under its international title, Brothers.

Adaptations
Philippine television dramas have spawned adaptations in other Asian countries:
Impostora (GMA): Impostors, Cambodia, 2012
Pangako Sa 'Yo (ABS-CBN): The Promise (សន្យាស្នេហ៍), Cambodia, 2013
Sana'y Wala Nang Wakas (ABS-CBN): Cinta Tiada Ganti, Malaysia, 2018
Kadenang Ginto (ABS-CBN): Putri Mahkota, Indonesia, 2020
Love Thy Woman (ABS-CBN): Belenggu Dua Hati, Indonesia, 2020
Sino ang Maysala?: Mea Culpa (ABS-CBN): Bukan Salah Cinta, Indonesia, 2020
Tayong Dalawa (ABS-CBN): Angkara Cinta, Malaysia, 2020
Hanggang Saan (ABS-CBN): Bir Annenin Günahı, Turkey, 2020
Forevermore (ABS-CBN): Vermem Seni Ellere, Turkey, 2023

See also
Television in the Philippines
List of Philippine drama series
List of ABS-CBN drama series
List of programs aired by TV5 (Philippine TV network)
List of GMA Network original drama series
Passage 15:
Labanoras Regional Park
Labanoras Regional Park, established in 1992, is located 80 kilometers northeast of Lithuania's capital, Vilnius. Covering 553.18 km², it is the largest regional park in the country. Its administration is in the small town of Labanoras.

Nature

The park contains about 70 lakes; about 80% of its land is forested. Its floral biodiversity is high, and it is home to the densest population of nesting white stork couples in Europe. It also contains areas with archeological, architectural, ethnographic, and historic value.
It is the largest Lithuania regional park, distinguished by a variety of landscapes, extremely rich flora and fauna. The largest part of the park is occupied by forests (80%), mostly pine forests. Labanoras forest with abundant wetlands and lakes is characterized by an abundance of protected species. Lakes occupy 14 percent. park areas. Spectacular Black Lakajai and White Lakajai, Stirniai, Siesartis and other lakes in Molėtai Lake District, 15.8 km long Aisetas lake. Lakaja, one of the most beautiful and exotic rivers, was loved not only by water birds but also by water tourists.
There are 285 lakes in Labanoras Regional Park - the largest of all Lithuanian regional parks. Largest: Stirniai, White Lakajai, Kertuojai. About 30 streams flow through the park. These are Lakaja, Peršokšna, Dumblė, Luknelė. In addition to these water bodies, the park protects swamp ecosystems, valuable calcareous marshes.
A whole complex of high marshes and lakeside low marshes is protected - Kanija raistas and many larger and smaller wetlands. In the Girutiškis Nature Reserve here, the Beržalotas upland swamp shines with the mirrors of the lakes.
Pine forests make up 81 percent. of all the forests in the park. Along with abundant lakes, swamps, hilly and undulating terrain, they are very picturesque.
The distant surroundings of Aukštaitija National Park can be seen from the observation tower of the Lithuanian Museum of Ethnocosmology.
The park is a famous breeding ground for elks,  wolves  and lynxes.
Passage 16:
Kirumi Bridge
Kirumi Bridge is a cable-stayed bridge in northern Tanzania across the Mara River on the border of Butiama and Rorya Districts of Mara Region. Its construction was financed via a loan from the African Development Fund. It was inaugurated in October 1985 by Julius Nyerere, the country's first president.