Passage 1:
Battle of Palmito Ranch
The Battle of Palmito Ranch, also known as the Battle of Palmito Hill, is considered by some criteria as the final battle of the American Civil War. It was fought May 12 and 13, 1865, on the banks of the Rio Grande east of Brownsville, Texas, and a few miles from the seaport of Los Brazos de Santiago, at the southern tip of Texas. The battle took place more than a month after the general surrender of Confederate forces to Union forces at Appomattox Court House, which had since been communicated to both commanders at Palmito, and in the intervening weeks the Confederacy had collapsed entirely, so it could also be classified as a postwar action.
Union and Confederate forces in southern Texas had been observing an unofficial truce since the beginning of 1865, but Union Colonel Theodore H. Barrett, newly assigned to command an all-black unit and never having been involved in combat, ordered an attack on a Confederate camp near Fort Brown for unknown reasons. The Union attackers captured a few prisoners, but the following day the attack was repulsed near Palmito Ranch by Colonel John Salmon Ford, and the battle resulted in a Confederate victory. Union forces were surprised by artillery said to have been supplied by the French Army garrison occupying the up-river Mexican town of Matamoros.
Casualty estimates are not dependable, but Union Private John J. Williams of the 34th Indiana Infantry Regiment is believed to have been the last man killed during the engagement. He could then arguably be considered the last man killed in the war.

Background
After July 27, 1864, the Union Army withdrew most of the 6,500 troops deployed to the lower Rio Grande Valley, including Brownsville, which they had occupied since November 2, 1863. The Confederates were determined to protect their remaining ports, which were essential for cotton sales to Europe and the importation of supplies. The Mexicans across the border tended to side with the Confederates because of the lucrative cotton export trade. Beginning in early 1865, the rival armies in south Texas honored a gentlemen's agreement, as they saw no point in further hostilities between them.Union Major General Lew Wallace proposed a negotiated end of hostilities in Texas to Confederate Brigadier General James E. Slaughter, and met with Slaughter and his subordinate Colonel Ford at Port Isabel on March 11–12, 1865. Despite Slaughter's and Ford's agreement that combat would prove tragic, Slaughter's superior, Confederate Maj. Gen. John G. Walker, rejected the ceasefire in a scathing exchange of letters with Wallace. Despite this, both sides honored a tacit agreement not to advance on the other without prior written notice.
A brigade of 1,900 Union troops commanded by Col. Robert B. Jones of the 34th Indiana Veteran Volunteer Infantry were on blockade duty at the Port of Brazos Santiago at the mouth of the present-day ship channel of the Port of Brownsville. The 400-man 34th Indiana was an experienced regiment that had served in the Vicksburg Campaign and was reorganized in December 1863 as a "Veteran" regiment, composed entirely of veterans from several other regiments whose original enlistments had expired. The 34th Indiana deployed to Los Brazos de Santiago on December 22, 1864, replacing the 91st Illinois Volunteer Infantry, which returned to New Orleans. The brigade also included the 87th and 62nd United States Colored Infantry Regiments ("United States Colored Troops", or U.S.C.T.) which had a combined strength of about 1,100. Shortly after Gen. Walker rejected the armistice proposal, Col. Jones resigned from the army to return to Indiana. He was replaced in the regiment by Lt. Col. Robert G. Morrison and at Los Brazos de Santiago by Colonel Theodore H. Barrett, commander of the 62nd U.S.C.T.
The 30-year-old Barrett had been an army officer since 1862, but he had yet to see combat. Anxious for higher rank, he volunteered for the newly raised "colored" regiments and was appointed in 1863 as colonel of the 1st Missouri Colored Infantry. In March 1864, the regiment became the 62nd U.S.C.T. Regiment. Barrett contracted malaria in Louisiana that summer, and while he was on convalescent leave, the 62nd was posted to Los Brazos de Santiago. He joined it there in February 1865.

Reasons for fighting
Historians still debate why this engagement at Palmito Ranch took place. Lee had surrendered to Grant in Appomattox Court House, Virginia, on April 9, triggering a series of formal surrenders in other places throughout the country. The Confederate and Union officers in Brownsville also knew that Lee had surrendered, effectively ending the war.
Soon after the battle, Barrett's detractors claimed he desired "a little battlefield glory before the war ended altogether." Others have suggested that Barrett needed horses for the 300 unmounted cavalrymen in his brigade and decided to take them from his enemy. Louis J. Schuler, in his 1960 pamphlet "The last battle in the War Between the States, May 13, 1865: Confederate Force of 300 defeats 1,700 Federals near Brownsville, Texas", asserts that Brig. Gen. Egbert B. Brown of the U.S. Volunteers had ordered the expedition to seize as contraband 2,000 bales of cotton stored in Brownsville and sell them for his own profit, but Brown was not even appointed to command at Brazos Santiago until later in May.According to historian Jerry Thompson:

What was at stake was honor and money. With a stubborn reluctance to admit defeat, Ford asserted that the dignity and manhood of his men had to be defended.  Having previously proclaimed that he would never capitulate to "a mongrel force of Abolitionists, Negroes, plundering Mexicans, and perfidious renegades"...Ford was not about to surrender to invading black troops.... Even more important was the large quantity of Richard King and Mifflin Kenedy's cotton stacked in Brownsville waiting to be sent across the river to Matamoros. If Ford did not hold off the invading Federal force, the cotton would be confiscated by the Yankees and thousands of dollars lost."

Battle
Union Lieutenant Colonel David Branson wanted to attack the Confederate encampments commanded by Ford at White and Palmito ranches near Fort Brown outside Brownsville. Branson's Union forces consisted of 250 men of the 62nd U.S.C.T. in eight companies and two companies of the (U.S.) 2nd Texas Cavalry Battalion. The 300-man 2nd Texas, like the earlier-formed 1st Texas Cavalry Regiment, was composed largely of Texans of Mexican origin who remained loyal to the United States. They moved from Brazos Santiago to the mainland. At first Branson's expedition was successful, capturing three prisoners and some supplies, although it failed to achieve the desired surprise. During the afternoon, Confederate forces under Captain William N. Robinson counterattacked with less than 100 cavalry, driving Branson back to White's Ranch, where the fighting stopped for the night. Both sides sent for reinforcements; Ford arrived with six French guns and the remainder of his cavalry force (for a total of 300 men), while Barrett came with 200 troops of the 34th Indiana in nine under-strength companies.The next day, Barrett started advancing westward, passing a half-mile to the west of Palmito Ranch, with skirmishers from the 34th Indiana deployed in advance. Ford attacked Barrett's force as it was skirmishing with an advance Confederate force along the Rio Grande about 4 p.m. He sent a couple of companies with artillery to attack the Union right flank and the remainder of his force into a frontal attack. After some confusion and fierce fighting, the Union forces retreated toward Boca Chica. Barrett attempted to form a rearguard, but Confederate artillery prevented him from rallying a force sufficient to do so. During the retreat, which lasted until 14 May, 50 members of the 34th Indiana's rearguard company, 30 stragglers, and 20 of the dismounted cavalry were surrounded in a bend of the Rio Grande and captured. The battle is recorded as a Confederate victory.

Fighting in the battle involved Caucasian, African-American, Hispanic, and Native American troops. Reports of shots from the Mexican side, the sounding of a warning to the Confederates of the Union approach, the crossing of Imperial cavalry into Texas, and the participation by several among Ford's troops are unverified, despite many witnesses reporting shooting from the Mexican shore.In Barrett's official report of August 10, 1865, he reported 115 Union casualties: one killed, nine wounded, and 105 captured. Confederate casualties were reported as five or six wounded, with none killed. Historian and Ford biographer Stephen B. Oates, however, concludes that Union deaths were much higher, probably around 30, many of whom drowned in the Rio Grande or were attacked by French border guards on the Mexican side. He likewise estimated Confederate casualties at approximately the same number.Using court-martial testimony and post returns from Brazos Santiago, historian Jerry D. Thompson of Texas A&M International University determined that:

the 62nd U.S.C.T. incurred two killed and four wounded;
the 34th Indiana had one killed, one wounded, and 79 captured; and
the 2nd Texas Cavalry Battalion had one killed, seven wounded, and 22 captured,
totaling four killed, 12 wounded, and 101 captured.Private John J. Williams of the 34th Indiana was the last fatality during the Battle at Palmito Ranch, likely making him the final combat death of the entire war.

Aftermath
President Jefferson Davis was captured and imprisoned on May 10, 1865, marking the effective end of the Confederate government. In addition, that day United States President Andrew Johnson declared "armed resistance ...virtually at an end." Historian James McPherson joins other historians in concluding that the war ended when the Confederate government ended.
Confederate General Edmund Kirby Smith officially surrendered all Confederate forces in the Trans-Mississippi Department on June 2, 1865, except those under the command of Brigadier General Chief Stand Watie in the Indian Territory. Stand Watie, of the 1st Cherokee Mounted Rifles, on June 23, 1865, became the last Confederate general to surrender his forces, in Doaksville, Indian Territory. On that same day, United States President Andrew Johnson ended the Union blockade of the Southern states.

Many senior Confederate commanders in Texas (including Smith, Walker, Slaughter, and Ford) and many troops with their equipment fled across the border to Mexico. Wanting to resist capture, they may also have intended to ally with French Imperial forces, or with Mexican forces under deposed President Benito Juárez.
The Military Division of the Southwest (after June 27 the Division of the Gulf), commanded by Maj. Gen. Phillip H. Sheridan, occupied Texas between June and August. Consisting of the IV Corps, XIII Corps, the African-American XXV Corps, and two 4,000-man cavalry divisions commanded by Brig. Gen. Wesley Merritt and Maj. Gen. George A. Custer, it aggregated a 50,000-man force on the Gulf Coast and along the Rio Grande to pressure the French intervention in Mexico and garrison the Reconstruction Department of Texas.
In July 1865, Barrett proffered charges of disobedience of orders, neglect of duty, abandoning his colors, and conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline against Morrison for actions in the battle, resulting in the latter's court martial. Confederate Col. Ford, who had returned from Mexico at the request of Union Gen. Frederick Steele to act as parole commissioner for disbanding Confederate forces, appeared as a defense witness and assisted in absolving Morrison of responsibility for the defeat at Palmito Ranch.The history of this engagement provides accounts of the roles of Hispanic Confederate veterans and of the treatment by Confederates in South Texas of black prisoners-of-war. Hispanic Confederates served at Fort Brown in Brownsville and on the field of Palmito Ranch. Col. Santos Benavides, who was the highest-ranking Hispanic in either army, led between 100 and 150 Hispanic soldiers in the Brownsville Campaign in May 1865.
Some of the Sixty-Second Colored Regiment were also taken [in the Battle of Palmito Ranch]. They had been led to believe that if captured they would either be shot or returned to slavery. They were agreeably surprised when they were paroled and permitted to depart with the white prisoners. Several of the prisoners were from Austin and vicinity. They were assured they would be treated as prisoners of war. There was no disposition to visit upon them a mean spirit of revenge.
When Colonel Ford surrendered his command following the campaign of Palmito Ranch, he urged his men to honor their paroles. He insisted that "The negro had a right to vote."

"Last battle of the Civil War"
Although officially most historians say this was the last land action fought between the North and the South, some sources suggest that the battle on May 19, 1865, of Hobdy's Bridge, located near Eufaula, Alabama, was the last skirmish between the two forces. Union records show that the last Northern soldier killed in combat during the war was Corporal John W. Skinner in this action. Three others were wounded, also from the same unit, Company C, 1st Florida U.S. Cavalry.Historian Richard Gardiner stated in 2013 that on May 10, 1865:

A confrontation took place at Palmetto Ranch. There was no Confederacy in existence when the "battle" occurred. The ex-Confederates at Palmetto Ranch were aware that Lee had surrendered and that the war was over. What happened in Texas can only be understood as a "post-war" encounter between Federals and ex-Confederate "outlaws."The Confederates won this engagement, but as there was no organized command structure, there has been controversy about the Union casualties. In 1896 these same men had their pensions cut, although this was quickly rectified by an appeal to the commissioner of pensions. The assistant secretary to the commissioner overturned the pension cut, legally ruling the men as the last Union casualties of the war.On April 2, 1866, President Johnson declared the insurrection at an end, except in Texas. There a technicality concerning incomplete formation of a new state government prevented declaring the insurrection over. Johnson declared the insurrection at an end in Texas and throughout the United States on August 20, 1866.

Battlefield
The area has remained relatively unchanged, with the marshy, windswept prairies almost the same as they were in 1865. The site is more than 5,400 acres (2,200 ha) in size, and was designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1997. The area is indicated by a large highway marker telling the history of the engagement, installed on the "Boca Chica Highway" (Texas State Highway 4) near where Palmito Ranch originally stood. The Civil War Trust (a division of the American Battlefield Trust) and its partners have acquired and preserved 3 acres (0.012 km2) of the battlefield.

See also
List of National Historic Landmarks in Texas
National Register of Historic Places listings in Cameron County, Texas

Notes
Passage 2:
Taifa of Baeza
The Taifa of Baeza (Arabic: طائفة بياسة) was a medieval taifa Moorish kingdom. It existed only from 1224 to 1226, when it fell to the Christian Kingdom of Castile.

List of Emirs
Bayasid dynasty
'Abd Allah al-Bayasi "El Baezano": 1224–1226
Passage 3:
Taifa of Saltés and Huelva
The Taifa of Saltés and Huelva (Arabic: طائفة ولبة وشلطيش) was a medieval Arab  taifa kingdom that existed in southern Iberia from around 1012 to 1051.  From 1051 until 1091 it was under the forcible control of Seville, by Abbad II al-Mu'tadid.The geographer al-Bakri (d. 1094) was born in the taifa of Saltés and Huelva.

List of Emirs
Bakrid dynasty
'Abd al-'Aziz 'Izz ad-Dawla: 1012/3–1051/2 or 53
Passage 4:
Taifa of Alpuente
The Taifa of Alpuente (Arabic: طائفة ألبونت) was a medieval taifa kingdom, of Berber origin, that existed from around 1009 to 1106 created following the end of the Caliphate of Córdoba in the Iberian Peninsula in 1010. It was centered at the city of Alpuente. It was ruled by a Berber family of the Banu Qasim tribe.

List of Emirs
Qasimid dynasty
'Abd Allah I: c. 1009–1030
Muhammad I Yumn ad-Dawla: 1030–1042
Ahmad b Muhammad 'Izz (o Adud) al-Dawla: 1042–1043
Muhammad II: 1043
'Abd Allah II: 1043–c. 1106

See also
List of Sunni Muslim dynasties


== Sources ==
Passage 5:
Taifa of Niebla
The Taifa of Niebla (Arabic: طائفة لبلة) was an Arab taifa kingdom that existed during three distinct time periods: from 1023 to 1053, from 1145 to 1150 and from 1234 to 1262.
From 1053 until 1091 it was under the forcible control of Taifa of Seville, by Abbad II al-Mu'tadid. It was finally conquered by the Crown of Castile. In 1262 it was eventually absorbed by Castile.

List of Emirs
Yahsubid dynasty
Abu'l-Abbas Ahmad: 1023/4–1041/2
Muhammad al-Yahsubi Izz ad-Dawla: 1041/2–1051/2
Abu Nars Fath: 1051/2–1053/4
To Seville: 1053/4–1091
To Morocco: 1091–c. 1145

Bitruyid dynasty
Yusuf al-Bitruyi (in Tejada 1146–1150): 1145–11??, d. 1150
al-Wahbi: 11??–1150
To Morocco: 1150–1234

Mahfuzid dynasty
Su'ayb: 1234–1262
To Castile thereafter.

See also
List of Sunni Muslim dynasties
Passage 6:
Francisco Giner de los Ríos
Francisco Giner de los Ríos (10 October 1839 in Ronda, Spain – 18 February 1915 in Madrid) was a philosopher, educator and one of the most influential Spanish intellectuals at the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century.

Biography
He studied philosophy in Barcelona and Granada and eventually became professor of the philosophy of law and of international law at the University of Madrid. He was strongly influenced by the ideas of the Kantian German philosopher Karl Christian Friedrich Krause (as imported into Spain by Julián Sanz del Río and became an important exponent of "Krausismo" in Spain.
He openly criticized the government for its attempts to stifle academic freedom. As a consequence, in 1875, he lost his chair at the university, which led to what can be seen as his major achievement: the 1876 foundation of the Institución Libre de Enseñanza (Institute of Free Teaching), a private school of higher learning. He dedicated his life to the formation of human beings along coeducation; rationalism; and freedom of teaching, research, and literary communication. The goal was a society in which free citizens would be governed by free citizens on the basis of an adequate education. Because of his "rational realist" approach to law, he can also be seen as one of the forerunners of the sociology of law.
Giner continued his work outside the university, even after he was reinstated in his university chair in 1881. Among the many important people who were at one time or another associated with the Institución Libre de Enseñanza and the related Residencia de Estudiantes were José Ortega y Gasset, Federico García Lorca, Salvador Dalí, Antonio Machado, Luis Buñuel and Miguel de Unamuno.

Further reading
Solomon Lipp: Francisco Giner de los Ríos. A Spanish Socrates. Waterloo, Ontario: Wilfried Laurier 1985 ISBN 978-08-89201-59-0
J.B. Trend: The Origins of Modern Spain. New York: The Macmillan Company 1934.

External links

Francisco Giner de los Ríos. Polymath Virtual Library, Fundación Ignacio Larramendi
Passage 7:
Río Frío de Juárez
Río Frío de Juárez, originally Río Frío (Cold River), a Mexican populated place, is located in the municipality of Ixtapaluca in the State of Mexico.  Río Frío de Juárez is located at the highest point on the highway between Mexico City to Puebla de Zaragoza being located at the top of the pass on the historic road between the two cities.
Rio Frio de Juárez, is located near the far eastern border of the State of Mexico, almost on the border of the State of Puebla, at an altitude of 3,000 meters above sea level.  It is located on the main roads of the Federal Highway 150D and Mexico-Puebla Highway 190 or Mexico-Puebla Highway.
The results of the Census of Population and Housing 2005 conducted by the National Institute of Statistics and Geography state that the total population of Rio Frio is 5,272 and that there are 2,620 men and 2,655 women.

History
Rio Frio had its origins with the establishment and development of the Camino Real (Royal Road) linking Mexico City and Veracruz via Puebla, during the colonial era and renamed Camino Nacional (National Road) in the early years of the independent Mexico when there was no other major roadway to the capital from the east coast.
Rio Frio was established at the pass at the top of the mountain range between the Valley of Mexico and Puebla-Tlaxcala Valley surrounded by lush pine forests. It provided food and lodging for the huge number of travelers and riches that were transported along this road, since it was often necessary stay to over night in this place.
During the early years of independent Mexico, this area known as El Monte Rio Frio, became the haunt of bands of raiders who robbed travelers passing through the area.  The Mexican government had no ability to protect the roads from these bandits which became common in the area of Rio Frio.
During the Mexican–American War, Río Frío was the post of E,F,G,H,I,J and L companies of the Second Ohio Volunteer Infantry.  It was one of the American garrisons protecting their line of communications from Mexico City via Puebla to Vera Cruz from the guerrilla forces of Mexico.The story of the banditry of Río Frío was made famous by the novel, Los bandidos de Río Frío, by the writer Manuel Payno; this situation ended with the arrival of the government of Porfirio Diaz, who with the use of the Guardia Rural restored security on the roads.  This novel was made into a telenovela in 1976.
Popular for hikers and climbers, the town is the main point of access to the Zoquiapan National Forest, which has large areas covered in high mountain forests and volcanos, such as Iztaccíhuatl, Telapón, mount Tlaloc and Cerro Gordo. From the north west part of town there are antique trails that lead to the summit of mount Tlaloc, an extinct volcano on which stands an archeological ceremonial site which at 4,120 m is the highest standing archeological site in the Americas. It was historically recorded as a place of  pilgrimship during precolonial times, intended to the adoration of the Mesoamerican rain deity Tlaloc. Today there are still followers of these traditions, most notably people who believe the site to be the Tlalocan, a mythological utopia referred in various ancient Toltec and aztec codexes. In this Mythology the site regarded as the dwelling place of Tlaloc.
The  town is also famous for its alpine architecture  and for having one of the lowest average temperature rates in central Mexico; the surroundings of the town are also famous for having a large number of weekend alpine style farms and cabins, and for the High Mountain food style stands along the main roads between Mexico City and Puebla.
Passage 8:
Taifa of Morón
The Taifa of Morón (Arabic: طائفة مورور) was a medieval Berber taifa kingdom that existed from around 1010 to 1066. From 1066 until 1091 it was under the forcible control of Seville, by Abbad II al-Mu'tadid.

List of Emirs
Dammarid dynasty
Abu Tuziri al-Dammari: ?–1013/4
Nuh: 1013/4–1041/2
Muhammad: 1041/2–1057
Manad: 1057–1066

See also
List of Sunni Muslim dynasties
Passage 9:
Mission San Francisco Solano (California)
Mission San Francisco Solano was the 21st, last, and northernmost mission in Alta California. It was named for Saint Francis Solanus. It was the only mission built in Alta California after Mexico gained independence from Spain. The difficulty of its beginning demonstrates the confusion resulting from that change in governance.  The California Governor wanted a robust Mexican presence north of the San Francisco Bay to keep the Russians who had established Fort Ross on the Pacific coast from moving further inland.  A young Franciscan friar from Mission San Francisco de Asis wanted to move to a location with a better climate and access to a larger number of potential converts.The Mission was successful, given its short eleven year life, but was smaller in number of converts and with lower productivity and diversity of industries than the older California missions.The mission building is now part of the Sonoma State Historic Park and is located in the city of Sonoma, California.

History
The mission was founded then managed by a succession of priests and friars over its duration.

Fr. Altamira
Fr. José Altimira at age 33 arrived from Barcelona, Spain, to serve at Mission San Francisco de Asís. The mission was not thriving because of its climate and had established a medical asistencia ("sub-mission") in San Rafael to help the mission's ill neophytes (baptized Native Americans) recover their health. California Governor Luis Argüello was interested in blocking the Russians at Bodega Bay and Fort Ross from moving further inland. Together they developed and presented to the church authorities and the territory (legislature) a plan for moving Mission San Francisco de Asís and the San Rafael asistencia to a new location north of the Bay. The legislature approved but the church authorities did not respond (they had forwarded the plan to their superiors in Mexico). Under the old Spanish regime, founding a new mission required the approval of both New Spain's Bishop and the King's Viceroy.Beginning in 1823, while waiting for a response from the church authorities, Fr. Altimira, with military escorts, began exploring north of the Bay for a suitable mission site. On July 4, 1823, the soldiers placed a large redwood cross on the place in the Sonoma Valley where they expected the new Mission San Francisco de Assis to be established. They celebrated Mass to consecrate the location, then returned south to begin gathering men and materials to begin construction.The area around the selected site was not empty. It was near the northeast corner of the territory of the Coast Miwok, Southern Pomo to the northwest, Wappo to the northeast, Suisunes and Ptwin peoples to the east. A detachment of soldiers from the Presidio of San Francisco would be provided to protect the Mission and guard the neophytes.Altimira with soldiers and neophytes primarily from Mission San Francisco de Asís returned to the Sonoma area near the end of August. Altimira decided there was a better place to build on the other side of the valley. Just after starting he received a letter from Father-President Sarria who refused Altimira permission to continue building. Fr. Altimira obeyed and the month of September saw continuing negotiations between California's civil and religious leaders. On September 30 an agreement was reached:  a new mission could be built and Fr. Altimira would be its minister, but Mission San Francisco de Asís would not be closed and the San Rafael asistencia had already been designated as a full mission (Mission San Rafael Arcángel).Beginning in October 1823 Fr. Altimira had the opportunity to build his new mission at the location he chose, but since Mission San Francisco de Asís would remain open this Mission needed a different patron saint. Altimira chose San Francisco Solano, a 17th-century Franciscan missionary to South America. His company of soldiers and neophytes set about building all the facilities needed in a California mission. His annual report for 1823 listed no baptisms, one marriage, one funeral, a population of 482 Indians (all transferred from other missions) and 1341 animals. The work had started too late in the year for anything to be planted and harvested.
On April 4, 1824, Passion Sunday, Father Altimira proudly dedicated his church. It was a crude, temporary structure but it symbolized development at the Mission. The church was built of whitewashed boards but was well furnished and decorated. Many of the articles were gifts from the Russians at Fort Ross. It also held a canvas painting of San Francisco Solano which had been donated by the Father-President. Furthermore, the Mission had been promised a relic of the patron saint to put in the altar.The Mission continued to develop until an argument arose about the sharing of the bountiful 1826 harvest. Indians not living at the Mission were unhappy with the amount allocated for their work; they burned some of the wooden buildings in protest. Fr. Altimira with a few faithful neophytes fled to Mission San Rafael Arcángel.

Fr. Fortuni
Fr. Buenaventura Fortuni, an aging Spanish Franciscan who had been working at Mission San José in California, was assigned to replace Altimira. Fr. Fortuni quickly reestablished order and morale and the work of building the mission restarted. He arranged the main buildings to form a large, square enclosure.
In 1830 Fr. Fortuni, having labored alone at this mission for three and a half years, felt the need to transfer to another mission where the workload could be shared. He was 58 years old. The Mexican government had in 1826 required that all the Spanish friars who would not pledge loyalty to Mexico leave. Fr. Fortuni had been exempt from this rule but all new churchmen would be required to take the pledge.

Fr. Gutierrez
Fr. Fortuni was replaced by Fr. José Gutiérrez, a Franciscan friar from South America. Fr. Gutierrez continued to build and increased the agricultural effort. By 1832 the mission had 27 rooms in the convento or priest's quarters, with a great adobe church at the east end, and a wooden storehouse (the original mission chapel) at the west end. Completing this enclosure were workshops where the Indians were taught to be craftsmen and created the items needed to help the mission be self-sufficient. Along the back of the courtyard were the living quarters and workrooms for the young Indian girls. In addition to the quadrangle, there were orchards, gardens, vineyards, fields of grain, a gristmill, houses for the soldiers and Indian families, a jail, a cemetery, and an infirmary.The most successful year of this mission's short life span (11 years) was 1832. In his annual report for that year, Fr. Gutierrez recorded the following: 127 baptisms, 34 marriages, and 70 deaths; a total of 996 neophytes (coming from 35 area villages); the livestock inventory included 6,000 sheep and goats, 900 horses, 13 mules, 50 pigs and 3,500 head of cattle. Crops were measured in fanegas, or Spanish bushels, a variable measure of volume generally between 50 and 60 liters. In 1832 the mission produced 800 fanegas of wheat, 1025 fanegas of barley, 52 fanegas of peas, 300 fanegas of corn, 32 fanegas of beans, and 2 fanegas of garbanzos.

Secularization
In 1833 the Mexican Congress decided to close all of the missions in Alta California with the passage of the Mexican secularization act of 1833. Governor Figueroa issued a regulation (Reglamento Provisional para la secularization de las Misiones) on August 9, 1834, outlining the requirements for the distribution of property (land, cattle, and equipment) to each mission's neophytes. Among the provisions were that "5. To each head of a family and to all over 20 years old, will be given from the Mission lands a lot not over 400 nor less than 100 varas square" (28 to 7 acres). Plus "6. ...pro rata...one-half of the livestock" and "7. ... half or less of the existing chattels, tools, and seed...".

Closure
Mission San Francisco Solano officially ceased to exist on November 3, 1834, when it was designated a First Class Parish. The Spanish missionaries were to be replaced by parish priests – the first was Fr. Lorenzo Quijas who had earlier been assigned to Sonoma and San Rafael.Lieutenant (teniente) Mariano Vallejo, Commandant of the Presidio of San Francisco, was named administrator (comisionado) to oversee the closing of the Mission under the Reglamento. Fr. Quijas moved back to San Rafael in July 1835, after many disputes with Guadalupe Antonio Ortega, Vallejo's majordomo to whom he had delegated the work of secularization. Ortega (sometimes called Sergeant Ortega) was “uneducated, coarse and licentious". Right after returning to San Rafael, Padre Quijas wrote a letter to Commissary Perfect Garcia Diego, his superior, complaining about the situation in Sonoma and specifically the "abominable deeds of Ortega." Quijas then gives names of witnesses to be called against Ortega. Upon receipt of the letter, Fr. Diego forwarded it to Governor José Figueroa demanding some action against Ortega. The Governor was critically ill and died at the end of the following month. No action was taken. It wasn't until the summer of 1837, because of new scandals and unsatisfactory accounts, that Ortega was removed.After Fr. Quijas left, the neophyte population decreased rapidly, most returning to their home villages – taking their movable property with them – or moving to ranchos {including Vallejo's Petaluma Adobe} to work, or staying in Sonoma as servants. Some former Mission Indians reportedly received their allotted land and cattle from the Mission (none of these small plots of land were permanently recorded.) In August 1839, the government sent William Edward Petty Hartnell as Visitador General de Misiones to check compliance with the Reglamento but Vallejo avoided responding – claiming he did not have time because of military affairs. No effective review of the secularization of the Sonoma mission was ever completed.

Decline
The mission buildings rapidly fell into disrepair. The town of Sonoma was growing and building materials were in great demand. Roof tiles, timbers, and adobe bricks were salvaged from the mission buildings. After the settlers had ransacked the old buildings, nature began recycling the remnants.

In 1841, Mariano Vallejo ordered a small adobe chapel to be built on the location of the first wooden mission chapel. It became the church of the parish and replaced the large mission church which was rapidly deteriorating. It stood on the west end of the Convento and so is often thought to be the church of the old mission.During 1863 President Abraham Lincoln transferred ownership of all the mission churches in California to the Roman Catholic Church. In 1881, the Sonoma church property was sold to a local businessman and a new parish church was built across town. At one time, the old adobe chapel was used as a warehouse. The Convento may have been used as a winery.

Reconstruction, memorial and hospital
In 1903, the two remaining mission buildings were purchased by California Historic Landmarks League, and became part of the California Park System in 1906. By 1913, both had been reconstructed. After the 1940s, the former church and Convento were remodeled along more authentic lines suited to exhibits devoted exclusively to mission history.Dedicated in 1999, the Sonoma Mission Indian Memorial honors the more than 800 native people (including over 200 children) who died while living and working at the Mission between 1824 and 1839.  Their Christian names, as recorded by the priests in the Mission's records, are inscribed on this granite memorial. European diseases such as measles and smallpox, for which Native Americans had no inherited resistance, together with the overcrowded and unhealthy living conditions (by today's standards) at all California missions (especially for women and children) contributed to the high death rate. However, the missions served, with the resources of the time, the health needs of its inhabitants, including those of Indian origin. Thus, the first hospital in California was founded in 1817 to care for the Indians of the Mission San Francisco de Asís, in what later became an independent Mission, the Mission San Rafael Arcangel, in San Rafael, California.

California Historic Landmark
On June 1, 1932, Mission San Francisco Solano was designated California Historical Landmark #3.

See also
San Francisco Bay Area portal

Spanish missions in California
List of Spanish missions in California
Mission San Gabriel
Mission San Rafael Arcángel
El Presidio de Sonoma
USNS Mission Solano (AO-135) – a Mission Buenaventura Class fleet oiler built during World War II
Sonoma Plaza – the U.S. National Historic Landmark District in front of the mission
Mission Guadalupe - the final Dominican mission to be founded, June 1834

Notes
Passage 10:
Taifa of Tejada
The Taifa of Tejada (Arabic: طائفة تيجادا) was a medieval Islamic taifa kingdom that existed only from 1146 to 1150 when it was conquered by the Almohad Caliphate. It was centered at the town of Tejada located in the present day Province of Burgos in northern Spain. It was ruled by an Arab family of the Banu Khazraj tribe. They claimed descent from Anas ibn Malik who was a sahaba (companion) of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.

List of Emirs
Khazraj dynasty
Yusuf al-Khazraji (in Niebla 1145–?): 1146–1150
Passage 11:
Taifa of Mértola
The Taifa of Mértola (Arabic: طائفة مارتلة) was a medieval Islamic Moorish taifa that existed in what is now southeastern Portugal. It existed during three distinct periods: from 1033 to 1044, from 1144 to 1145, and from 1146 to 1151. From 1044 until 1091 it was under the forcible control of the Taifa of Seville, by Abbad II al-Mu'tadid. Its short-lived history ended in 1151, when it was finally conquered by the Almohad Caliphate.

List of Emirs
Abbadid dynasty
Abbad II al-Mu'tadid:1033-1044Becomes part of Seville: 1044–1091 (Abbadid Family)

Almoravid dynasty
To Almoravid dynasty: 1091–1144

Qasid dynasty
Abu-l-Qasim Ahmad ibn al-Husayn ibn Qasi: 1144–1145, d. 1151
To Badajoz: 1145–1146
Abu-l-Qasim Ahmad ibn al-Husayn ibn Qasi (restored): 1146–1151
To Almohads: 1151–1250
Passage 12:
Taifa of Jaén
The Taifa of Jaén (Arabic: طائفة جيان) was a medieval Islamic taifa Moorish kingdom centered in Al-Andalus. It existed for only two very short periods: first in 1145 and then in 1168. It was ruled by Arabs of the Banu Khazraj tribe. The Taifa was centred in the present day region of Jaén in southern Spain.

List of Emirs
Yuzaid dynasty
Ibn Yuzai: 1145

Huddid dynasty
Abu Dja'far Ahmad Zafadola (also Cord., Gran., Val.): 1145
To Almohads: 1145–1159
To Murcia: 1159–1168

Hamuskid dynasty
Ibrahim: 1168
To Murcia: 1168–1232
Passage 13:
Taifa of Murviedro and Sagunto
The Taifa of Murviedro and Sagunto was a medieval taifa kingdom that existed in a short period from 1086 to 1092.

List of Emirs
Lubbunid dynasty
Abu 'Isa Lubbun: 1086–1092
Passage 14:
Taifa of Guadix and Baza
The Taifa of Guadix and Baza was a medieval Moorish taifa kingdom. It existed from 1145 to 1151, when it was conquered by the Taifa of Murcia.

List of Emirs
Malyanid dynasty
Ahmed ibn Muhammed ibn Malyan al-Muta'yyad: 1145–1151
Passage 15:
Taifa of Santarém
The Taifa of Santarém (Arabic: طائفة شنترين) was a medieval Islamic taifa Moorish kingdom in what is now central Portugal. It existed from 1144 to 1145. It was centered in the city of Santarém and encompassed much of the present day Santarém District. The Taifa was ruled by the Arab tribe of Banu Khazraj which had its origin in the Hejaz region of Arabia.

List of Emirs
Labidid dynasty
Labid: 1144–1145
To Badajoz: c. 1145–1147
Passage 16:
Gonzalo Güell
Gonzalo Güell y Morales de los Ríos (February 16, 1895, in Havana, Cuba – September 2, 1985, in Coral Gables, Florida, U.S.) was a Cuban lawyer and a career diplomat (1919–1959).

Career
Guell was Foreign Minister of Cuba from 1956 to 1959 and Prime Minister of Cuba from March 12, 1958, to January 1, 1959. He also served as the Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Norway and the United Nations.
He was one of the 40 persons that flew with Fulgencio Batista to the Dominican Republic on New Year's Eve 1959 when Fidel Castro took over Cuba.

Personal life
He was married three times. Two of his wives were Francisca Pubill and Juana Inigo. He had one daughter.
Passage 17:
Taifa of Tortosa
The Taifa of Tortosa (Arabic: طائفة طرطوشة) was a medieval Islamic taifa kingdom. It existed for two separate periods, from 1010 to 1060 and 1081 to 1099. It was founded by the Slavic warlord Labib al-Fata al-Saqlabi.

List of Emirs
Saqlabi (Servile Rulers) dynasty
Labib al-Fata al-Saqlabi (Valencia 1017–1019): c. 1009–bfr. 1039/40
Muqatil Sayf al-Milla: bfr. 1039/40–1053/4
Ya'la: 1053/4–1057/8
Nabil: 1057/8–1060
To Zaragoza: 1060–1081 or 2/3

Huddid dynasty
al-Mundir 'Imad ad-Dawla: 1081 or 1082/3–1090
Sulayman Sayyid: 1090–c.1115
To Morocco: c.1115–1148

See also
List of Sunni Muslim dynasties
Passage 18:
Taifa of Tavira
The Taifa of Tavira (Arabic: طائفة تاويرا) was a medieval Islamic taifa Moorish kingdom in what is now southern Portugal. It existed only from around 1146 to 1150. It was centered in the city of Tavira.

List of Emirs
'Umarid dynasty
'Umar: fl. mid-12th century (1146–1150)
To Almoravids: c. 1150–1250
Passage 19:
Taifa of Carmona
The Taifa of Carmona (Arabic: طائفة قرمونة) was a medieval Berber taifa kingdom. It existed for two distinct periods: first from 1013 to 1066 when it was conquered by the Taifa of Seville, and secondly from around 1143 to 1150 when it was finally conquered by the Almohad Caliphate. The taifa was established and ruled by the Zenata Berber Birzalid dynasty.

Origins
The Banu Birzal was a Zenata Berber tribe  settled in the Zab region and belonging to the confederations of the central Maghreb (Maghreb al-Awsat).

List of emirs
Birzalid dynasty
'Abd Allah: 1013/4–1023/4
Muhammad: 1023/4–1042/3
Ishaq: 1042/3–1052/3
Al-'Aziz: 1052/3–1066/7
To Seville: 1066/7–1091
To Morocco: 1091-c. 1143

Darddusid dynasty
Darddus: fl. mid-12th century
To Morocco: 1150–1248

See also
List of Sunni Muslim dynasties
Passage 20:
Taifa of Ronda
The Taifa of Ronda (Arabic: طائفة رندة) was a medieval Berber taifa kingdom centered in Moorish al-Andalus in what is now southern Spain. It existed from 1039 to 1065. The taifa was ruled by a family from the Berber Banu Ifran tribe of North Africa. Its capital was the city of Ronda. From 1065 until 1091, the taifa was under the control of the Taifa of Seville, led by Abbad II al-Mu'tadid.

List of Emirs
Yafranid dynasty
Abu Nour: 1039/40–1053/4
Badis ibn Hilal: 1053/4–1057/8
Abu Nur Hilal (restored): 1057/8
Abu Nars Fatuh: 1057/8–1065

See also
List of Sunni Muslim dynasties