Passage 1:
List of South Park cast members
South Park is an American animated sitcom created by Trey Parker and Matt Stone who also do the majority of the voices. Both Parker and Stone do most of the male characters on the show along with April Stewart and Mona Marshall, who do the female characters on the show. Guest stars have lent their voices to the show including Jay Leno, George Clooney, Jennifer Aniston, Bill Hader, Robert Smith and the comedy duo Cheech & Chong voiced characters representing their likenesses for the season four (2000) episode "Cherokee Hair Tampons", which was the duo's first collaborative effort in 20 years. The entirety of the Nu-Metal band Korn also provided their voices and likenesses in the season three episode "Korn's Groovy Pirate Ghost Mystery".
Characters in the show, according to Parker and Stone, are inspired by people they met when they were kids. Stan Marsh is made based on Parker himself while Kyle Broflovski is based on Stone himself. Eric Cartman is partially named after and based on Matt Karpman, a high school classmate of Parker who remains a friend of both Parker and Stone. Cartman is also inspired by All in the Family patriarch Archie Bunker, of whom Parker and Stone are fans. They state that creating Cartman as a "little eight-year-old fat kid" made it easier for the two to portray a Bunker-like character after the introduction of political correctness to late-20th century television. Kenny McCormick was based on the creator's observation that most groups of childhood friends in small middle-class towns always included "the one poor kid" and decided to portray Kenny in this light. Butters Stotch is loosely based on South Park co-producer Eric Stough.Some of the original voice actors left the show. Mary Kay Bergman voiced the majority of the female characters until her suicide on November 11, 1999. Mona Marshall and Eliza Schneider succeeded Bergman, with Schneider leaving the show after its seventh season (2003). She was replaced by April Stewart, who, along with Marshall, continues to voice most of the female characters. Isaac Hayes, who voiced the character Chef, left the show after Parker and Stone's depiction of the cult of Scientology, to which Hayes belonged, in the episode Trapped in the Closet.

Current cast
Parker and Stone voice most of the male South Park characters. Mary Kay Bergman voiced the majority of the female characters until her death on November 11, 1999. Mona Marshall and Eliza Schneider succeeded Bergman in 2000, with Schneider leaving the show after its seventh season (2003). She was replaced by April Stewart, who, along with Marshall, continues to voice most of the female characters. Bergman was originally listed in the credits under the alias Shannen Cassidy to protect her reputation as the voice of several Disney and other kid-friendly characters. Stewart was originally credited under the name Gracie Lazar, while Schneider was sometimes credited under her rock opera performance pseudonym Blue Girl.Other voice actors and members of South Park's production staff have voiced minor characters for various episodes, while a few staff members voice recurring characters; supervising producer Jennifer Howell voices student Bebe Stevens, storyboard artist Adrien Beard voices the school's only black student, Tolkien Black, producer Vernon Chatman voiced an anthropomorphic towel named Towelie, and supervising producer John Hansen voices Mr. Slave, the former gay lover of Mr. Garrison. Series developer Eric Stough also voices Kenny McCormick "un-muffled," in the few episodes where the character does not wear his trademark parka that normally muffles his voice. Throughout the show's run, the voices for toddler and kindergarten characters have been provided by various small children of the show's production staff.When voicing child characters, the voice actors speak within their normal vocal range while adding a childlike inflection. The recorded audio is then edited with Pro Tools, and the pitch is altered to make the voice sound more like that of a fourth grader.Isaac Hayes voiced the character of Chef, a black, soul-singing cafeteria worker who was one of the few adults the boys consistently trusted. Hayes agreed to voice the character after being among Parker and Stone's ideal candidates which also included Lou Rawls and Barry White. Hayes, who lived and hosted a radio show in New York during his tenure with South Park, would record his dialogue on a digital audio tape while a respective episode's director would give directions over the phone, then the tape would be shipped to the show's production studio in California. After Hayes left the show in early 2006, the character of Chef was killed off in the season 10 (2006) premiere "The Return of Chef".

Guest stars
Celebrities who appear on the show are usually impersonated, though some celebrities lend their voice to their characters. Celebrities who have voiced themselves include Michael Buffer, Brent Musburger, Jay Leno, Robert Smith, and the bands Radiohead and Korn.
Comedy team Cheech & Chong voiced characters representing their likenesses for the season four (2000) episode "Cherokee Hair Tampons", which was the duo's first collaborative effort in 20 years. Malcolm McDowell appears in live-action sequences as the narrator of the season four episode "Pip".Jennifer Aniston, Richard Belzer,Natasha Henstridge, Norman Lear, and Peter Serafinowicz have guest starred as other speaking characters. During South Park's earliest seasons, several high-profile celebrities inquired about guest-starring on the show. As a joke, Parker and Stone responded by offering low-profile, non-speaking roles, most of which were accepted; George Clooney provided the barks for Stan's dog Sparky in the season one (1997) episode "Big Gay Al's Big Gay Boat Ride", Leno provided the meows for Cartman's cat in the season one finale "Cartman's Mom Is a Dirty Slut", and Henry Winkler voiced the various growls and grunts of a kid-eating monster in the season two (1998) episode "City on the Edge of Forever". Jerry Seinfeld offered to lend his voice for the Thanksgiving episode "Starvin' Marvin", but declined to appear when he was only offered a role as "Turkey #4".

Trey Parker
Trey Parker voices four of the main characters: Stan Marsh, Eric Cartman, Randy Marsh and Mr. Garrison. He also provides the voices of several recurring characters, such as Clyde Donovan, Mr. Hankey, Mr. Mackey, Stephen Stotch, Jimmy Valmer, Timmy Burch, Tuong Lu Kim and Phillip.

Matt Stone
Matt Stone voices three of the main characters: Kyle Broflovski, Kenny McCormick and Butters Stotch. He also provides the voices of several recurring characters, such as Gerald Broflovski, Stuart McCormick, Craig Tucker, Jimbo Kern, Terrance, Saddam Hussein, Tweek Tweak, Mr. Adler and Jesus.

Mona Marshall
Mona Marshall voices Sheila Broflovski and Linda Stotch.

April Stewart
April Stewart voices Liane Cartman, Sharon Marsh, Carol McCormick, Shelly Marsh, Mayor McDaniels, Principal Victoria and Wendy Testaburger.

List
Recurring guest voices
The recurring guest voices include John Hansen, Vernon Chatman, Adrien Beard and Jennifer Howell.

Casting changes
Mary Kay Bergman voiced the majority of the female characters until her death on November 11, 1999. Mona Marshall and Eliza Schneider succeeded Bergman in 2000, with Schneider leaving the show after its seventh season (2003). She was replaced by April Stewart, who, along with Marshall, continues to voice most of the female characters. Isaac Hayes, who voiced the character Chef, left the show after Parker and Stone's depiction of his religion Scientology in the episode "Trapped in the Closet".

Due to the unusually small cast (majority of characters voiced by Parker and Stone) only Bergman, Schneider, and Hayes have left the cast as aforementioned in 1999, 2003, and 2008 respectively.
Passage 2:
Line Describing a Cone
Line Describing a Cone is an avant-garde film produced in 1973 by artist Anthony McCall as part of his "solid light" film series. McCall's reduction of film to the essential properties of the medium resembles the work of other radical artists of his time, and has inspired various projects by artists such as Stan Douglas, Richard Serra, and Gordon Matta-Clark.

Description
The idea for Line Describing a Cone came to McCall on his voyage from London to New York, where he produced the film in 1973. Though he had already created a number of other 16mm films, Line allowed him to actualize his ideas on the relationship between viewer and film and the medium of film itself. The thirty-minute film begins with a single white dot projected onto a black surface. As time progresses, the dot begins to form a curved line, tracing the circumference of a circle until the end of the line reaches its starting point. Meanwhile, particles in the air reveal the path of light in the space between the projector and the wall, making visible a cone of light. If the artist's display specifications are met, this beam of light projects between thirty and fifty feet. The circle that is projected onto the surface sits approximately twelve inches above the ground, and its diameter spans seven to nine feet. The exhibition space lacks seating, inviting the viewer to interact with the ray of light beaming from the projector to the screen. When multiple spectators view the piece together, these encounters with the light, at once an interruption and component of the piece, become an interaction with other audience members.

Exhibition
Exhibition of Line has changed since its first displays. Following the rules of cinema, early screenings occurred at a specific time and place. Audiences had to arrive at the beginning of the film, typically hosted in New York lofts, and follow it through its conclusion. The dust and cigarette smoke that were common in these displays created the cone of light mentioned previously. When the film moved into art institutions such as the Whitney Museum of American Art, dust and smoke were replaced with fog machines. Moreover, these institutions played the film on a loop, allowing viewers to enter and leave the screening as they pleased.In addition to the changes that have already occurred in the display of Line over time, changes in technology and media rouse concern for the long-term fate of the piece. Apart from the change in materials that make the cone visible, from cigarette smoke to artificial fog, the impending obsolescence of 16mm film may require the piece to be transferred to a digital projector.

Relation to film and sculpture
Line Describing a Cone reflects McCall's interests in film and sculpture. Line addresses the medium of film by removing the narrative demands and addressing the specific properties of the medium itself such as projection, frames, and light. Moreover, by emphasizing the physical space between the projector and screen McCall calls attention to the sculptural dimensions of projection. In his artists's statement written to judges of the Fifth International Experimental Film Competition, McCall writes:

 It deals with the projected light beam itself, rather than treating the light beam as a mere carrier of coded information, which is decoded when it strikes a flat surface… Line Describing a Cone deals with one of the irreducible, necessary conditions of film: projected light. It deals with this phenomenon directly, independently of any other consideration. It is the first film to exist in real, three-dimensional space.
McCall's manipulation of film has placed the piece within the art world as well as the world of avant-garde film.
Passage 3:
A Piñata Named Desire
"A Piñata Named Desire" is the eleventh episode of the seventh season of the animated comedy series American Dad!.  It first aired on Fox in the United States on February 13, 2011. This episode mainly centers on Roger and Stan, who begin to experience tensions growing against each other for the dominant figure in the house. Roger becomes tired of Stan's stance as the authoritarian figure of the house, and he challenges Stan's leadership qualities. Stan insists that he is better than Roger at everything, and he tells him that he has a mission that involves acting. Unknown to Stan, Roger spies on him, only to find out that Stan is a terrible actor. Roger later boasts to the house that he is a better actor than Stan, but he eventually teaches him to improve his acting skills. Meanwhile, Steve and his friends plan to throw their last slumber party together.
This episode was written by Chris and Matt McKenna and directed by Bob Bowen, with Jacob Hair as the assistant director. It received highly positive reviews from television critics and fans alike upon its initial airing. The episode was viewed by over 3.94 million viewers upon its initial airing, and it garnered a 1.9 rating in the 18-49 demographic, according to the Nielson ratings. It featured guest appearances from Lucy Lawless and Terry Crews, as well as several recurring voice actors and actresses for the show.

Plot
Roger auditions for a new play entitled "Piñata Man" and begins boasting about his acting ability, infuriating Stan.  Stan insists that he's a better actor and is still the "top dog" in the house.  Francine gets frustrated with their constant fighting while Hayley attributes it to sexual tension and says they should just have sex already and get over it.  Roger, disbelieving the story, follows Stan to work and sees that he is indeed acting as a waiter in a CIA sting.  However, he finds that Stan is a terrible actor, unable to even offer water to the patrons convincingly and causing the sting to turn sour, resulting in the deaths of several agents.  Back home, Roger taunts Stan over his failure and Stan finally admits that he can't act. Stan asks Roger for help, and Roger refers him to acting coach Irwin Beyer Jr. (who, as Stan correctly predicts, is another of Roger's personas.)  Stan shows progress by acting out a scene from WarGames by relating it to his acting inability, but refuses to perform the love scene with Roger as the "leading lady".  At the casting call for "Piñata Man", the title role goes to Stan, who reveals that he took the acting lessons so he could steal the role right out from under Roger and reassert his dominance.
On Opening Night, Roger injures the leading lady and her understudy so he can claim the role as an actress named Cleshawn Montague and show up Stan. The performance devolves into the pair desperately trying to outdo one another, including damaging the set and turning a scene into an impromptu battle rap.  When they come to the love scene, Roger is confident that Stan won't be able to kiss him, but Stan gets over his disgust and does so; this leads to another battle of one-upmanship as they perform increasingly raunchy sexual acts until finally they're both arrested for public indecency for simulating sexual intercourse on stage. In the police car, Stan and Roger have become friends again, complimenting each other's acting talent, much to the confusion of Francine and with Hayley reaffirming what she said at the start of the episode.
Meanwhile, Steve and his friends plan to have a slumber party together. Vince Chung and the rest of the school students overhear and make fun of them, and Steve's friends think that they are too old to have a slumber party. Steve later suggests that this be the last sleepover that he and his friends will ever have. At a local pizzeria, Steve and his friends get into an argument over details, including a moment where Toshi tells Snot to "eat his bowls" after he screams at him to learn English. In the end, they hold a sleepover at Steve's treehouse, being reunited with the alleged fifth member of the group who had moved away years ago. Steve suspects he is a stranger who overheard them in the pizzeria, but they let him participate anyway.

Production
"A Piñata Named Desire" was written by series regulars Chris and Matt McKenna, in their second episode of the season. This would be the first episode that both writers would write since the season six episode "Fart-break Hotel". This episode was directed by series regular Bob Bowen, with Jacob Hair as the assistant director. This would be the third time Bowen has directed an episode for the season, having also directed season six episode "For Whom the Sleigh Bell Tolls" and "White Rice". Seth MacFarlane, the creator and executive producer of American Dad!, as well as its sister shows Family Guy and The Cleveland Show, served as the executive producer for the episode, along with series veterans Mike Barker, Rick Wiener, Matt Weitzman, and Kenny Schwartz. Diana Retchey was the animation producer for the episode, in her seventh episode of the season. She has also been the animation producers for many Cartoon Network shows, such as Johnny Bravo and Samurai Jack. Amanda Bell served as the production manager, while Michael Wittenberg would serve as the post-production supervisor for the episode. This would be Bell's eighth episode of the season where she served as the production manager, while this would be Wittenberg's ninth episode of the season as the post-production supervisor.This episode featured a guest appearance from Lucy Lawless, who provided the voice for Stacy. Recurring voice actors Curtis Armstrong, Daisuke Suzuki and Eddie Kaye Thomas guest starred as Steve's friends in the episode. Armstrong previously reprised his role in "Stan's Food Restaurant", while Suzuki and Thomas reprised their roles in "Best Little Horror House in Langley Falls".

Reception
"A Piñata Named Desire" was broadcast on February 13, 2011 as part of the animation television night on Fox. The show started off the line up, the third consecutive week that American Dad started off Fox's "Animation Domination" block. It was followed by The Simpsons, Bob's Burgers, and its sister shows Family Guy and The Cleveland Show. It was viewed by 3.94 million viewers upon its original airing, despite airing simultaneously with Dateline NBC, 60 Minutes on CBS, and America's Funniest Home Videos on ABC. It achieved a 1.9 rating in the 18-49 demographic, the lowest rating of the line up. The episode's total viewership and ratings were significantly down from the previous episode, "Stanny Boy and Frantastic", which was viewed by 4.80 million viewers upon its initial airing, and garnered a 2.2 rating in the 18-49 demographic."A Piñata Named Desire" was met with highly positive reception by television critics and fans alike upon its initial release. Rowan Kaiser of The A.V. Club gave the episode a very positive review, saying the show "is back in fine form tonight, something notable from the start when they bypass a full credit sequence in favor of a simple title card." Kaiser highly praised the main plot, calling the interaction between Stan and Roger "fantastic throughout." However, he wrote a mixed review about the secondary plot of the episode, suggesting that Steve's idea to plan a "sleepover to end all sleepovers" with his friends is "a pretty typical sitcom plot for adolescents". Furthermore, "American Dad adds nothing new except more self-blowjob-attempt jokes. It's not terrible, and if nothing else, it highlights just how good the Roger/Stan [...] storyline is. Despite his criticisms, he rated the episode an A−, the highest grade of the night, scoring higher than The Simpsons episode "The Blue and the Gray", the Bob's Burgers episode "Sexy Dance Fighting", the Family Guy episode "Friends of Peter G., and The Cleveland Show episode "A Short Story and a Tall Tale". Jason Hughes of TV Squad also gave the episode a positive review, calling it "funny". He praised the main plot, find it hilarious when "seeing Stan completely screw up a mission because he's not as good at acting as Roger is." As for Roger's acting in the episode, he says "it should have been obvious that he's a natural," especially when "he even has boobs when he plays women."
Passage 4:
Gamla stan metro station
Gamla stan is a station on the Green and Red lines of the Stockholm metro. It is located on the western side of the Gamla stan (Old town) district of central Stockholm, and is at ground level, although partly under the Centralbron bridge that carries road and mainline rail across the waterways that define the centre of the city. The same waterways are responsible for the ground level location of the station, unusual for a city centre metro station, as the lines cross between the  islands of Stadsholmen and Södermalm by a bridge immediately south of the station.The station has two island platforms between four parallel through tracks, with the western platform for trains to the north and the eastern one for trains to the south. Red line trains use the inner pair of tracks and Green line the outer tracks. The platforms are accessed from a ticket hall located under the tracks and platforms. The ticket hall can be reached from Mälartorget, Munkbroleden or Munkbrohamnen.The station site was previously occupied by the Köttorgshallen and Munkbrohallen markets, which were demolished to make way for the metro. The station was opened on 24 November 1957 as part of the Green line connection between Slussen and Hötorget which connected the previously disconnected southern and western sections of that line. On 5 April 1964, the first stretch of the Red line, between T-Centralen and Fruängen, was opened.As part of Art in the Stockholm metro project, in 1998 the station received medieval weaving patterns, weather sun motifs and cement mosaic-patterned floors by Göran Dahl, as well as fencing with weaving patterns between the tracks by Britta Carlström.

Gallery
Passage 5:
Dian Bachar
Dian Bachar (; born October 26, 1970) is an American actor most notable for his roles in various films by or starring his friends Trey Parker and Matt Stone, such as Cannibal! The Musical (George Noon), Orgazmo (Ben Chapleski) and his most famous role as Kenny "Squeak" Scolari in 1998's BASEketball, as well as making the occasional appearance on South Park.

Career
Dian Bachar attended Chatfield Senior High School. Bachar then received his BFA in Film Production at the University of Colorado at Boulder where he met Matt Stone and Trey Parker. From there, he went on to star in the student film, Cannibal! The Musical, for internship credit. Bachar also co-starred with Parker in Orgazmo, playing the eponymous character's sidekick "Choda Boy", and played multiple parts in Parker and Stone's short-lived series Time Warped.
Bachar shared an apartment with Parker and Stone up until 1997. When BASEketball was in the works, Parker asked David Zucker to change the script to allow for three players on each team (it was supposed to be just two to a team) to allow for Bachar to have a part in the movie.In 1998, Bachar won a Leonardo da Vinci Award from the Beaux Arts Society, Inc. in the category of Actor, Debut Performance (Film) for his role in BASEketball  and an award for Best Actor in the 2012 short film Coaching Me Softly at the 48-Hour Film Project.Most recently, Bachar starred in the horror feature The Murders of Brandywine Theater and the western drama short film Homestead.  He is the co-owner of Bonobo Mountain Films with partner Carrie Rapaport.

South Park appearances
Due to his friendship with creators Parker and Stone, Bachar had provided several guest voices on their animated series South Park.

"Cow Days" - voicing the game show announcer.
"Merry Christmas Charlie Manson!" - voicing the fake Mr. Hankey.
"Do the Handicapped Go to Hell?" - voicing Satan's lover Chris.
"Probably" - again voicing Satan's lover, Chris.

Short films
Bachar and fellow actor Sam Macaroni are the leads in both of the internet series Roommates: The Series and Dimwits.

Music videos
Bachar appears in The Melvins "The Talking Horse" music video, and starred in and directed the music video "Rock Hard Soul" for the Chicago-based band, JIP.

Filmography
Passage 6:
Jamieson Price
Jamieson K. Price is an American actor, best known for his deep and booming voice in numerous anime and video games. He is known as the voice of the Count of Monte Cristo in Gankutsuou, Sojiro Sakura in Persona 5, Ovan in .hack//G.U., and Galbalan, and Milton Grimm from Ever After High. Price also had a part in the 2000 movie The Patriot.

Biography
Price became interested in acting as a young child, starting from when he was in the fourth grade and later did theatre performances even during his adolescent and young adult years. In high school, Price got involved with dramatic interpretations-(focusing on poetry and prose reading) as well as voice competitions in his teens and became Virginia State Champion in his senior year of high school which later lead him to get into acting and voice acting by a close friend of his during the late 90s after graduate school. He eventually got a job in the voice acting business by Dorothy Fahn who is a friend of his wife Bethany who was very interested in his deep voice; aside from acting/voice acting, he has also done work for fight choreography as well as a theatrical technician.

Personal life
Price has been married to his wife Bethany Price since December 31, 1993, who works as a director, audition/stage coach, and an acting instructor. He has three children-(2 daughters and 1 son); Dane-(an actor and musician), Cynthia-(an actress and dancer), and Meghan-(a chiropractor). Jamieson Price is also involved with a few podcasts, one of them being Crypto-Z.

Filmography
Anime
Animation
Films
Video games
Live action
Passage 7:
Arnaud Joyet
Arnaud Joyet (born 3 April 1974) is a French singer, musician, comedian and theatre director. He plays Stan in the series Hero Corp.
Passage 8:
Insecurity (South Park)
"Insecurity" is the tenth episode of the sixteenth season of the American animated sitcom South Park, and the 233rd episode of the series overall. It aired on Comedy Central in the United States on October 10, 2012.The story concerns Kyle Broflovski's belief that his mother is having an affair with a UPS delivery man. When public suspicion falls upon the delivery man, package delivery to the neighborhood is threatened, and Eric Cartman purchases a home security system in response. The episode parodies security alarm systems, and also contains references to Amazon.com and the film The Dark Knight Rises. Multiple characters, including Cartman himself, impersonate the fictional villain Bane.

Plot
Gerald Broflovski dresses up as a UPS delivery man in order to engage in sexual roleplay with his wife, Sheila. Their three-year-old son, Ike, sees this and is convinced that his mother is having an affair with a real delivery man. He draws a picture of what he saw, and tearfully shows his older brother Kyle. When Kyle confides this to the other boys at Stan Marsh's house, Stan’s father Randy Marsh overhears them, and informs the other men in town of this. Soon, all the children and men in South Park, led by Randy, are under the impression that UPS delivery men are sleeping with their wives and mothers. Around this time, Eric Cartman decides to have a home security system installed to protect his mother. However, he accidentally triggers the device and becomes infuriated with the company's nonchalant reaction.
The old mechanic at Skeeter's Bar convinces the men that the convenience of ordering products online has brought this situation upon them, relating the UPS delivery men to milk men of the 20th century. He recounts how back in his day, men got lazy and wanted to have milk delivered to their doorstep. Little did they know that the milkman delivering the milk would sleep with their wives. He says that history is now repeating itself with Amazon, with women receiving products from the e-commerce giant that they do not remember ordering. Randy then observes this phenomenon with his wife Sharon, and then finds Ike's drawing in Stan's room. Convinced that Thad, the UPS delivery man is sleeping with their wives, Randy and the men ask the old mechanic for advice. At first he states that there is no getting rid of the delivery man, not in any way they are "prepared for", but suggests they let him keep sleeping with their wives until he gets tired. Stephen, however, states that it is not just their wives anymore, believing that the UPS man is now going after the men too, as he just received a product that he does not remember ordering. The old mechanic tells them the only way to solve the problem is to kill the delivery man and resolve to return to purchase products in brick and mortar stores, stating that his generation did the same with milkmen.
The men each don Bane-type masks, severely beat up Thad, and leave Ike's drawing on him to indicate that they know what he did. When the deliveries continue, the men decide to install the Wolf Home Security personal alarm system, named "INSecurity", which is physically installed inside the user and triggered whenever the user feels insecure. This leads to rampant false alarms caused by the men's insecurities. Kyle attempts to address the issue of his mother's "affair" by having his parents sit down with the UPS delivery man. However, after Thad's UPS truck is destroyed by a bomb, he retreats deeper into the Broflovski's home before jumping out of a second-story window to his death. The men tell the police that Thad killed himself because he was a psychopath who had been forced to have sex with his mother. They purportedly illustrate this by showing the police Ike's drawing, which they say they found in the man's pocket. When the police find a UPS uniform in the Broflovski's closet, Kyle and the men realize that Gerald was the UPS man that Ike saw.
When the men inform the old mechanic that he was wrong about the trappings of modern convenience and merely need to be secure with themselves, the old man suggests that the security salesmen are having sex with their wives. As a result, Cartman and the men, again disguised as Bane, confront the security technician. The episode ends with him dragged out of his truck in shock after Cartman tells him that he should have "respected [Cartman's] authoritah".

Production
"Insecurity" was developed from an idea created during meetings for the show's 2014 video game, South Park: The Stick of Truth. Parker and Stone and the team at South Park Studios had spent the summer prior to their fall run working on the video game, and one idea that came up was a character having to get into people's homes, and past their security systems. The idea got the team discussing in-home security systems, which Parker views as a "big scam" due to the rarity of the system alarming for a real emergency. Parker and Stone spoke to a close friend who is a policeman, who confirmed that they received false alarms "all the time." The United States Department of Justice estimates that between 94% and 98% of all alarm calls to law enforcement are indeed false alarms.Several scenes were completed before the run began, with "Insecurity" set as the season premiere. Scenes scripted at this time included Cartman's dialogue back-and-forth with the security company employees, regarding his password. The storyline was still incomplete when its broadcast date neared, so they decided to wait on it for later in the season. At one point, they considered splitting the episode into a two-parter, between Cartman's battle with the security companies and the plot line regarding the postman. They decided to keep it one episode when they scripted scenes with the old man in Skeeter's Bar, feeling as though his dialogue connected the two stories enough.Parker remarked that the episode was inspired by his own life, when he had ordered items from Amazon.com, only to forget what it is when it arrives. Likening the surprise to Christmas morning, he noted in the episode's DVD commentary he has a tendency to order random items when South Park episodes are near completion: "I [order items] the most on Tuesday nights, when we're approving animation like crazy, it's like three in the morning, I'll just get on the computer and start ordering shit from Amazon […] just to make Thursday [its arrival date] like Christmas."

Cultural references
The episode references Bane, a character within the Batman universe, specifically, his depiction by actor Tom Hardy in  the 2012 film The Dark Knight Rises. It also references UPS and Amazon.com.

Reception
Ryan McGee of The A.V. Club gave the episode a B, writing that the episode "did its best to link up the fear of cuckoldry with the fear of home invasion, but the results themselves were mixed." Max Nicholson of IGN called the episode an "admirable entry" for the season, though noting "While the plot here was clearly framed around recycling these two jokes over and over, they were both strong enough to carry out the 22 minutes in full."
Passage 9:
Stephen Russell
Stephen L. Russell is an American actor, playwright, and theater director. He is best known for his video game voice roles as Garrett in the Thief series, Corvo Attano in Dishonored 2, and various characters in Skyrim and the Fallout series.

Career
Russell appeared onstage in Huntington's The Last Hurrah. Other stage credits include The Life of Galileo (Underground Railway Theater), The Bottom of the Lake (Tir Na Theatre), Daughter of Venus (Boston Playwrights' Theatre), A Pinter Duet, A House With No Walls, White People (New Repertory Theatre), And Then There Were None, A Prayer for Owen Meany (Stoneham Theatre), Talley's Folly (The Lyric Stage Company of Boston), and more than two dozen productions with the Wellfleet Harbor Actors' Theatre (WHAT), including The Beauty Queen of Leenane and the Eliott Norton Award-winning production of A New War. He is the author of 13 plays for young audiences and won the 2009 WHAT Award for Sustained Artistic Excellence.Russell made his debut film appearances as Bob in the 2007 film Noëlle and in 2008 appeared as Luther Norris in the film Chatham. In 2009, he played a minor role in the film The Ghosts of Girlfriends Past. In addition to voicing Garrett in the Thief video game series, he voiced Garrett's chief antagonist Karras in Thief II: The Metal Age, as well as many of the supporting characters in the series. He contributed the voice of the starship Von Braun's central computer XERXES and William Bedford Diego in System Shock 2. He also provided the voices of Andy, Mr. Buckingham, The Great One, Wadsworth, Sergeant RL-3, Cerberus, Enclave Scientists, an Enclave Soldier, and every Mr. Handy in Fallout 3, Fallout 4, and Fallout 76. The 2011 game Skyrim features Russell voicing a range of characters, including Barbas the talking dog, Daedric Prince Clavicus Vile, Belethor, and Thieves Guild leader Mercer Frey. In the 2015 game Fallout 4, he voices Codsworth and the android detective Nick Valentine. He provided the voice for Lord Protector Corvo Attano in the 2016 video game Dishonored 2.
Russell did not return to the Thief franchise for the 2014 reboot because it utilized motion-capture acting, which required the voice actors to physically portray the characters and perform their own stunts. Eidos-Montréal announced that Russell had been replaced by Romano Orzari for the role of Garrett in the series, and explained their decision: "The actor playing Garrett needed to be able to perform his own stunts. Garrett's a really athletic guy. We could have pasted Stephen's voice on top of the actions and stunts of someone else, but this wouldn't appear natural." The decision upset some fans of the series, who initiated an online petition requesting Eidos-Montréal to bring back Russell as lead voice actor.

Personal life
He is a vegetarian. He has a son named Peter, who is an actor and musician, and a daughter named Robin, who is a voice actress.

Selected voice credits
Passage 10:
Chef (South Park)
Jerome Nigel McElroy, often referred to as "The Chef" or simply "Chef", is a recurring fictional character on the Comedy Central series South Park who was voiced by Isaac Hayes. A cafeteria worker at the local elementary school in the town of South Park, Colorado, Chef is generally portrayed as more intelligent than the other adult residents of the town, and understanding to the children. His advice is often sought by the show's core group of child protagonists—Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, Eric Cartman, and Kenny McCormick—as he is the only adult they completely trust. Chef frequently gives completely honest advice without considering whether it is appropriate for children, usually in the non sequitur form of a lascivious soul song.
Chef was inspired by Hayes and other popular soul singers of the 1970s, as well as an actual dining hall worker encountered by series co-creator Trey Parker while he attended the University of Colorado. Chef played a less prominent role as the series progressed beyond its earlier seasons, and the character was retired at the beginning of the tenth season in "The Return of Chef" following the controversial departure of Hayes.

Character
In tradition with the show's animation style, Chef is composed of simple geometrical shapes, and is animated with use of a computer, though he is given the impression of being a construction paper cutout composition animated through the use of stop motion, which was the technique used to animate the "Spirit of Christmas" shorts and the show's first episode. Chef is an overweight black American with a beard who usually wears blue pants and a red shirt. He frequently dons a traditional chef's hat and white apron on which the word "CHEF" is printed in black, even when not at work.
Until Token Black and his family were given a more notable role starting in the show's fourth season, Chef was portrayed as the only black resident in all of South Park. Parker and co-creator Matt Stone initially planned to have one of themselves voice the character, fearing that their ideal candidates of Hayes (Lou Rawls and Barry White) would never agree to voice the character because the duo had admittedly and purposefully created him as a "stereotype" to reflect what they felt was the perception most inhabitants of less-diverse mountainous Colorado towns had of black people. However, Hayes agreed to voice the character due in part to the audacity of some of the show's early scripts. Chef (usually affectionately) referred to most people in town with the pejorative "crackers", including the children.
Chef, after abandoning his musical aspirations, moved to South Park with plans to open his own restaurant. Before this, he had befriended several famous recording artists in the music industry, including Elton John and Meat Loaf, helping them to launch their successful careers. Despite failing at yet another dream, Chef made his way onto the South Park City Council, representing Public Safety. In addition to dispensing wisdom to the children and a few of the adult townsfolk, Chef speaks out against what he feels are outrageous ideas. For example, he opposes the rampant prescription of Ritalin in the episode "Timmy 2000", and he objects to the town's acceptance of Mr. Garrison committing purposefully flamboyant sadomasochistic acts in front of schoolchildren in "The Death Camp of Tolerance". In "Chef Goes Nanners", he briefly converts to Islam and adopted the name "Abdul Mohammed Jabar Rauf Kareem Ali" when he demanded that South Park change its official flag because it depicted the town's racist past. On several other occasions, Chef helped save South Park (and in a few other instances, the entire world) from potential disasters.Chef is also known for frequently engaging in casual sex, a habit he often expresses through song. He drives a 1980s woodie station wagon with a vanity plate that reads "LUV CHEF". He is often seen accompanied by numerous young women when at home or on vacation, and is even revealed to have had a one-night stand with Kathie Lee Gifford. He once resorted to male prostitution in an effort to raise money to pay legal fees, and had sex with nearly every woman in South Park before having to stop due to exhaustion. In "The Succubus", Chef briefly becomes an office worker and took up monogamy after meeting a woman named Veronica. The two were engaged to be married until it was revealed that Veronica was actually a succubus. In the South Park video game, the children can seek Chef's advice at one of the many buildings labelled "Chef's Shack O' Love", which is implied to be a brothel, complete with a naked woman in Chef's bed.
Chef's parents, Nellie and Thomas McElroy, live in Scotland. The couple have made two major appearances in the episodes "The Succubus" and "The Biggest Douche in the Universe", and made a brief cameo in a town Christmas celebration in "Red Sleigh Down". They were not seen at Chef's funeral in "The Return of Chef".
Chef is known to have run a quiz show called Chef's Luv Shack, as is apparent in the video game of the same name.

Relationship with the children
Chef endearingly calls the boys "the children" or just "children" (even when addressing one individually), and, unless he is preoccupied with a female companion, is usually willing to assist them with whatever help they need. Chef is consistently the only adult in town whom the boys held in high regard, and they view him as their friend. They are also visibly saddened if his presence in their lives is threatened. In addition to being fans of his food (especially his trademark Salisbury steak), the boys often heartily anticipate encountering Chef when waiting in the school lunch line, so that they can explain whatever dilemma is affecting them, usually after their traditional greeting:

Chef: Hello there, children!The boys [in unison]: Hey Chef!Chef: How's it goin'?The boys [one or in unison]: Bad.Chef: Why "bad"?

The boys sometimes take it upon themselves to travel to Chef's house individually to seek his guidance on all manners of their problems, specifically relationships. Chef usually gives advice in the form of a soul song, which usually winds up being about sex, whether or not sex was relevant to the topic at hand. Hearing the songs would often leave the boys even more confused and with no further understanding of what they initially inquire about. In earlier seasons, Chef is often approached by the children when they are unfamiliar with a term that pertains to adult matters, such as "lesbian" or "prostitute". This happens so often that it eventually angers Chef, who pleads with them to stop asking questions he feels are not appropriate for him to answer. Despite this, the children continue asking Chef these questions, much to his chagrin. An absent-minded Chef sometimes answers anyway, not realizing his lapse until the damage had been done. Chef acknowledges that doing this had repeatedly gotten him in trouble with his boss, Principal Victoria.

Music
In addition to singing in an effort to explain something to the children, Chef also sings about things relevant to what has transpired in the plot. These songs were original compositions written by Parker, and performed by Hayes in the same sexually suggestive R&B style he had utilized during his own music career. Within the show, Chef is the original composer of these songs, including "Stinky Britches", which was depicted as having been covered by Alanis Morissette without proper credit to Chef. When Chef is left with legal debt after losing a court case to have himself credited as the song's original writer, several bands and artists (guest starring as themselves) hold a concert dubbed "Chef Aid", a parody of Live Aid, to raise the funds. The episode inspired a real-life album, Chef Aid: The South Park Album, which featured guest stars from the episode such as Elton John and Ozzy Osbourne. The album includes many of the full-length versions of the songs Chef had performed in the show's first two seasons; "Chocolate Salty Balls" was released as a single, and reached #1 in both the record charts of Ireland and the United Kingdom. As the series progressed and Chef's role became more intermittent, his spontaneous outbursts into song became less of a show standard.
Parker and Stone originally planned to have Chef sing a song in every single episode but abandoned the idea after finding it too challenging and fearing writing too many songs would make them less funny, similar to their rationale for dispensing with Kenny's episodic deaths.

Departure of Isaac Hayes
On January 4, 2006, Hayes defended South Park's style of controversial humor to The A.V. Club and XM's Opie and Anthony show, going so far as to note that although he was not pleased with the show's depiction of the Church of Scientology, of which he was a member, he "understood what Matt and Trey are doing." However, on March 13, 2006, nearly two months after suffering a stroke, Hayes was reported to have quit South Park over objections to the show's attitudes toward and depiction of various religions, claiming that the show had crossed the line from satire into intolerance.
Despite the content of the official press release, there remains considerable speculation about the motivations behind his departure. Parker and Stone assert that he quit due to the controversial episode "Trapped in the Closet", and its treatment of Scientology. Stone commented in a manner that suggested that Hayes practiced a double standard regarding the treatment of religion on South Park: "[We] never heard a peep out of Isaac in any way until we [lampooned] Scientology. He wants a different standard for religions other than his own, and to me, that is where intolerance and bigotry begin." Fox News reporter Roger Friedman suggested that, because he was still suffering from the effects of his stroke, Hayes was hospitalized and not in a position to make a rational decision to leave the show. Friedman also reported that Hayes left the show because of the external pressure forced by his fellow Scientologists, the decision was not voluntary, and the original press release announcing his departure was put out by someone who was not authorized to represent him. In a 2016 oral history of South Park in The Hollywood Reporter, Hayes' son Isaac Hayes III confirmed that the decision to leave the show was made by Hayes' entourage while Hayes was unable to make such decisions on his own.

Retirement
Nine days after Hayes's departure from production, the controversy was satirized in the show's Season 10 premiere "The Return of Chef". For the episode, voice clips of Chef were taken from previous episodes and linked together to form new dialogue to support the plot, which involves Chef's leaving South Park to join the "Super Adventure Club", which eventually brainwashes Chef until he had the mindset of a child molester. The organization combines outdoor activities with child molestation, an act they perceive as justified because of their beliefs.
After the boys restore Chef to his original mindset, but are unable to convince him to come back to South Park, a rope bridge Chef is walking across is struck by lightning. He falls to a violent death, culminating with his mutilation at the hands of a grizzly bear and a mountain lion and finally discharged fecal matter (a reference to the episode "Something Wall-Mart This Way Comes", in which Cartman claims that the relaxation of the bowel muscles confirms that a person is really dead).South Park holds a memorial service for him (Canadian comedians Terrance and Phillip even attend, despite having never met the man themselves), in which Kyle gives a eulogy stating, "We shouldn't be mad at Chef for leaving us, we should be mad at that fruity little club for scrambling his brains", a deliberate parallel with Hayes' departure from the show in favor of Scientology.Mimicking a scene from the finale of Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith, Chef's body is secretly collected by the Super Adventure Club, who managed to revive him as a cyborg — identified on the show's official website as "Darth Chef" (a parody of Star Wars' Darth Vader). He is fitted with a suit and mask like those of Vader, except with the helmet taking on the appearance of Chef's trademark hat, and wields a red, glowing spatula, parodying Vader's red lightsaber. Darth Chef's voice was provided by British comedian and filmmaker Peter Serafinowicz, who voiced Darth Maul in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. Darth Chef has not made an appearance in subsequent episodes, but has appeared with other characters in the background of the South Park opening sequence, and is mentioned in the episode "Stunning and Brave", when PC Principal says the kids drove him to kill himself, which is not true.Chef is alluded to after his death in the season 10 episode "Hell on Earth 2006" where, during Satan's party, there are multiple scenes in which a Caucasian male dressed as Chef can be seen in the background. He is also referenced in the season 14 episode "Crème Fraiche" when Randy becomes the new chef at school and greets the kids with Chef's trademark lines. Chef's death is also indirectly mentioned in the season 19 episode "Stunning and Brave" when PC Principal talks about all the things he finds offensive (incorrectly assuming that Chef's death was a suicide, before giving Butters detention for correcting him). Isaac Hayes himself died on August 10, 2008, two years after his departure from South Park. On November 4, 2008, the film Return to Sleepaway Camp was released in the United States; filmed in 2003, the film features Hayes in a cameo as a live-action version of Chef, referred to once as Charlie but portrayed/credited as South Park's "The Chef".
Chef makes an appearance in the 2014 video game South Park: The Stick of Truth as the reanimated Nazi Zombie penultimate boss later in the game. Once again, voice clips of Isaac Hayes as Chef are recycled from past episodes with the exception of recorded speech clips from Adolf Hitler. During his battle with the player and the other boys, Chef will express remorse by saying things like "I'm sorry, boys" and "what have I done?" While there were vague references to the Super Adventure Club and his death, there were no references to the Darth Chef suit. After being defeated, Chef regains control over his mind and tries to tell the boys, but he is then killed by Clyde and the New Kid.In a sketch from the Robot Chicken episode "Boogie Bardstown in: No Need, I Have Coupons", Chef is a contestant on MasterChef Celebrity Showdown, where he has to cook with the thing he fears most: thetans.
Passage 11:
Buzz Lightyear
Buzz Lightyear is one of the main characters in Disney/Pixar's Toy Story franchise, voiced by Tim Allen. He is a superhero toy action figure based on the in-universe media franchise consisting of a blockbuster feature film and animated series, Space Ranger. In the Disney/Pixar Toy Story franchise, Buzz wears a green, purple, and white space suit. Buzz Lightyear is a recurring character in all of the Toy Story franchise's animated films, including spin-offs. Notably, Woody serves as the main protagonist throughout the four films in the series, while Buzz remains an important character. In Toy Story (1995), unlike most other toys, Buzz initially believes himself to be the "real" Buzz Lightyear and comes to terms with actually being just a toy; in Toy Story 2 (1999), Buzz encounters other Buzz Lightyear action figures from the toyline who similarly believe themselves to be "real" including one of the character's in-universe archenemy and father: Emperor Zurg; in Toy Story 3 (2010), set ten years later, Buzz explores a romance with cowgirl figure Jessie, while he uncovers his Spanish mode; while in Toy Story 4 (2019), Buzz finds his inner voice and bids farewell to Woody, who leaves to be with Bo Peep.
The fictional character, Buzz Lightyear, Space Ranger, on which the toy Buzz is based, also appears in the 2000 direct-to-video film "Buzz Lightyear of Star Command: The Adventure Begins" and its subsequent spin-off television series, "Buzz Lightyear of Star Command." In these productions, he is voiced by Tim Allen and Patrick Warburton, respectively. Chris Evans voiced this version of the character in the 2022 spin-off film Lightyear, presented as an in-universe film the characters in Toy Story would watch (as previously depicted in the opening scene of The Adventure Begins) exploring their origin story, with James Brolin additionally voicing an elderly, nihilistic version of Buzz from an alternate future, known as Zurg (a separate character from Emperor Zurg).

Conception and creation
Buzz Lightyear's name was in honor of Apollo 11 astronaut Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin, the second person to walk on the Moon. According to Pixar producers, the character was provisionally named Lunar Larry, but it sounded "too wacky". Aldrin acknowledged the tribute when he pulled a Buzz Lightyear toy out during a speech at NASA. A clip of this can be found on the Toy Story 10th Anniversary DVD. Aldrin did not receive any endorsement fees for the use of his nickname.Regarding the design of Lightyear, Toy Story director John Lasseter said he wanted to create an action figure in the line of G.I. Joe for the film and decided upon a spaceman figure. Lasseter attributes his design to the influence of Apollo astronauts, in particular, their clear helmets, skullcaps, communication devices, and white suits.The purple and fluorescent green color scheme were the favorite colors of Lasseter and his wife's respectively. The looks of television actor Ed Kemmer are also believed to be a prototype for Lightyear. Kemmer played Commander Buzz Corry in Space Patrol, one of the first science-fiction series on American television.Originally, when a screen test was being made, producers wanted Buzz to be voiced by Billy Crystal. He turned the role down, and after seeing the first film, he said that turning it down was "the biggest mistake of his career".

Appearances
Buzz Lightyear, toy
Toy Story (1995)
In the animated film Toy Story, Buzz Lightyear, an action figure, is given to a boy named Andy Davis from his mother as a birthday present. He quickly impresses the other toys with his skills, flashy accessories and wings, and soon becomes Andy's favorite toy. Sheriff Woody, the former favorite toy, quickly becomes jealous. It soon becomes apparent that Buzz is unaware he is a toy, genuinely believing that he is a space ranger sent to stop the Evil Emperor Zurg. He further believes that his red light bulb "laser" is a deadly weapon, his wings are functional aircraft-grade steel, and that he cannot breathe with his helmet open.
After Woody unintentionally knocks Buzz out of Andy's bedroom window, Buzz follows and confronts Woody in Andy's car. The two become separated from Andy while fighting, and Woody tries to convince Buzz he is a toy but fails. The two are soon captured by Andy's sadistic neighbor, Sid Phillips. Buzz sees a commercial on a TV in Sid's house which reveals he is a toy. In denial, Buzz tries to fly and ends up breaking his arm. He falls into despair.
Sid's toys fix Buzz's arm, and Sid tapes him to a rocket with the intention to blow him up. Woody convinces Buzz his purpose is to make Andy happy; eventually causing Buzz to regain his resolve. He teams up with Woody to escape Sid and return to Andy. As the two pursue Andy's van, Woody is attacked by Sid's dog Scud. Buzz fights off the dog to rescue Woody, and Woody uses RC to rescue Buzz. When the two are still unable to catch up to Andy, Woody is forced to light the rocket and launch them into the air; Buzz opens his wings to sever the tape holding him to the rocket, saving them from exploding and flying solo for the first time, albeit, while carrying Woody. After they are reunited with Andy, Buzz and Woody remain close friends.

Toy Story 2
In the animated film Toy Story 2, Woody is kidnapped by a greedy toy collector named Al McWhiggin, who is intent on selling him and other "Woody's Roundup" toys to a toy museum in Japan. Buzz leads Mr. Potato Head, Slinky Dog, Rex, and Hamm on a daring rescue mission. They travel to the Al's Toy Barn store, which they believe Woody was taken to. The trip involves crossing a busy road. Buzz uses traffic cones to help the group avoid being crushed by cars.
In the store, the toys get separated. Buzz discovers an aisle full of his fellow Buzz Lightyear toys, one of which has a fancy Utility Belt. When Buzz tries to touch the belt, the Utility Belt Buzz comes to life; also believing he is a real space ranger. He quickly "arrests" Andy's Buzz as a rogue space ranger. Andy's Buzz mocks himself and earlier delusions while Utility Belt Buzz berates him for "backtalk" and imprisons him for "court martial" in an empty Buzz Lightyear case. Andy's Buzz unsuccessfully tries to explain that he and Utility Belt Buzz are both toys.
Soon, the other toys find Utility Belt Buzz and mistake him for Andy's Buzz. Andy's Buzz fails to get their attention and is forced to escape the box on his own. He pursues them out of the store and across the road to Al's apartment. Buzz inadvertently frees an Evil Emperor Zurg action figure while doing so, and he pursues him with intent to destroy him.
Andy's Buzz rejoins the group, and convinces Woody, who had been worried about Andy growing up and had considered going to Japan, that it would be better to come home. Woody invites the other Roundup toys to come with them; Jessie and Bullseye agree, but Stinky Pete refuses and locks them in (and Buzz out) when they try to escape. Al reappears and takes Woody and the Roundup toys to the airport. Andy's Buzz and Utility Belt Buzz pursue Al into the elevator shaft with the other toys. Zurg confronts them, and he reveals he is Utility Belt Buzz's father. Rex accidentally knocks him down the elevator shaft.
Utility Belt Buzz stays behind with a reformed Zurg, while Andy's Buzz and the other toys steal a Pizza Planet truck and drive to the airport. Andy's Buzz stands on a pizza box and operating the steering wheel. At the airport, they subdue Stinky Pete and rescue Woody and Bullseye in the baggage handling system. Buzz and Woody ride Bullseye onto the runway to rescue Jessie from the airplane before it takes off for Japan. The toys all return home in a stolen baggage cart.
By the end of the film, Buzz has developed a crush on Jessie. He and Woody decide not to worry about Andy growing up, as they will always have each other as friends for "infinity and beyond".

Toy Story 3
In the animated film Toy Story 3, Woody, Buzz, and the other toys accidentally end up in a daycare center after Andy's mother mistakes them for trash while Andy is packing for college. Woody unsuccessfully tries to convince the other toys it was a mistake. Buzz, who was going to be put in the attic with most of Andy's other toys, decides the best thing the toys can do is to stay together at the daycare. This causes Woody to strike out on his own in search of Andy, who had earlier faced a difficult decision as to whether to take Woody or Buzz with him to college.
Meanwhile, Andy's toys are greeted by Lots-o’-Huggin' Bear (Lotso for short), who is seemingly the leader of the daycare toys. He assigns them to the Caterpillar Room, where they are subjected to a very rough playtime by children far too young to play safely with toys like them. At the behest of the other toys, Buzz finds Lotso to kindly request a transfer to the Butterfly Room if possible. When Buzz rejects Lotso's offer to join his gang upon hearing his friends couldn't be involved, Lotso orders his henchmen to switch Buzz to "demo" mode.
In the state, Buzz's memories and original personality appear to be erased; his space ranger delusions from the first film return. Lotso takes the opportunity to make Buzz think Andy's toys are minions of Zurg. The brainwashed Buzz angrily imprisons his friends when they attempt to escape; tasked to watch over the "prisoners" every night. Woody, now aware of the truth behind Lotso, returns to Sunnyside. Andy's toys subdue Buzz attempting to restore his memories, but accidentally reset him to his "Spanish Mode", confusing many characters and resulting in many comedic character changes for the audience.
Buzz still believes he is a real space ranger and still does not have his memories. Woody manages to convince him Andy's toys are his "amigos". The Spanish Buzz helps the toys escape Sunnyside; making no secret of his love for Jessie. Lotso confronts them as they reach the dumpster outside the daycare. In the ensuing altercation, Lotso and all of Andy's toys are dumped into a garbage truck. Buzz heroically rescues Jessie from getting buried in trash, but ends up crushed by a broken TV. Jessie breaks down in tears over Buzz's "dead" body, only for Buzz to awaken unharmed with his normal personality/memories restored(albeit with no recollection of the events that occurred during his brainwashing and Spanish Mode).
At the landfill, they toys are pushed onto a conveyor belt. Buzz and Woody rescue Lotso from a shredder and help him reach an emergency stop button. Lotso abandons them, however, and they fall into an incinerator. Buzz and Jessie join hands and face the approaching fire, prompting everyone else to do the same. The three toy aliens operating a claw rescue them, and they make their way home. Andy donates them all to a little girl Woody met at the daycare, Bonnie. When introducing Buzz, Andy describes him as "the coolest toy ever". As the toys settle in at Bonnie's house, Buzz finds himself performing a romantic paso doble with Jessie to the Spanish version of "You've Got a Friend in Me" as the film ends; much to the amusement of the other toys.

Toy Story 4
In the animated film Toy Story 4, Buzz plays a significantly smaller role since the film is centered on Woody, Bo, and a host of new characters. He still acts as Woody's moral support, and tries to comfort Woody when he begins to sense Bonnie is no longer interested in Woody. Buzz also learns about the "inner voice", but mistakenly believes the term refers to his button-activated voice box and catchphrases. He spends much of the film using said voice box to guide him as to what he must do next.
When Woody and Bonnie's new favorite toy, Forky, are separated from the group during an RV trip, Buzz, guided by his "inner voice", pursues them into a carnival. He is captured by a vendor and put up with other toys as a potential prize at a game, where he encounters conjoined plushies Bunny and Ducky. Bunny and Ducky are initially antagonistic, as they believe Buzz has come to lower their chances of ever being won and owned by a kid. The two refuse to listen to his explanations, and become further enraged when Buzz frees them and himself from the game. Thinking they will now never be owned, they pursue and attack a bewildered Buzz, until Woody, who has now met up with Bo Peep and rejoined Buzz, offers to take the two plushies to Bonnie after Forky is rescued.
Buzz, Bunny, and Ducky join forces, and are tasked with retrieving keys from an antique store owner to free Forky, who is trapped inside the store. They succeed, but the mission to rescue Forky fails because of the antique store owner's cat. After Woody and Bo have a falling-out, Buzz's inner voice guides him to rejoin Andy's toys, which he does. Later, Forky is freed by Woody and reports that Woody and several other toys need rescuing - Buzz, Jessie, and the others take over the controls of the RV and force Bonnie's dad to drive it back to the carnival.
Woody and Buzz meet up at a carousel, and Buzz notices that Woody is feeling heartbroken about having to part ways with Bo Peep again. Buzz suggests that Woody stay behind to be with Bo, knowing that Bonnie will be okay even without him. Knowing that this might be the last time they will see each other, they share a final goodbye hug, part ways, and exchange their last words of dialogue from afar. Buzz says "to infinity...", and Woody completes the sentence with "...and beyond."

Toy Story 5
Buzz is set to appear in Toy Story 5 and will once again be voiced by Tim Allen.

Buzz Lightyear, Space Ranger
Buzz Lightyear of Star Command
In the television series Buzz Lightyear of Star Command, Buzz Lightyear is a Space Ranger working for Star Command, protecting the universe from Evil Emperor Zurg. He works in a team alongside Mira Nova, a princess; Booster, a janitor; and XR, a robot. This version of Buzz Lightyear has a different personality from the one in Toy Story. Buzz Lightyear also has had many love interests on the show. He once had a friend and partner named Warp Darkmatter, however, he later joined Evil Emperor Zurg and became his primary agent. Buzz Lightyear also seems to never take off the purple headwear that he has with his Space Ranger uniform. Aside from his regular catchphrase, he has a habit of telling villains that "Evil never wins!"

Lightyear
In the Toy Story universe, The 2022 animated film Lightyear is the origin of the character on which the Buzz Lightyear of Star Command toy line was based. The film, which was directed by Angus MacLane, tells the story of young astronaut Buzz Lightyear, who, after being marooned on a hostile planet with his commander and crew, tries to find a way back home while confronting a threat to the universe's safety. Buzz was confirmed to be voiced by Chris Evans and the film was released on June 17, 2022.

Other appearances
Buzz Lightyear, voiced by Pat Fraley, appears in the computer games Disney's Animated Storybook: Toy Story and Disney's Activity Center: Toy Story, both released in 1996. A Buzz Lightyear toy also appears in Pixar's 2003 film Finding Nemo. He also appeared as a car in Pixar's 2006 movie, Cars, along with Woody and Hamm. He is also seen in the Toy Story Treats realised in 1996 and all three Toy Story Toons episodes Hawaiian Vacation, Small Fry, and Partysaurus Rex, and the two specials: Toy Story of Terror! and Toy Story That Time Forgot.
Buzz was also in the 2008 Disney film Bedtime Stories and the 2010 Disney film The Sorcerer's Apprentice. Buzz Lightyear and Woody appear as piñatas in Pixar's 2017 film Coco. Woody and Buzz appeared in the 2019 video game Kingdom Hearts III as guest party members, where Buzz gains the ability to use his laser. He is also able to fly as his fictional counterpart without knowing during a Keyblade war crisis across dimensions. Woody eventually recalls him back to normal reality.

Buzz Lightyear is a meetable character at all of the Disney Parks and Resorts, located in Tomorrowland and in Toy Story Land. He is often accompanied by the Aliens. Tim Allen reprised his role using one of his archival recordings in the 2018 Walt Disney Animation Studios film Ralph Breaks the Internet, where he repeated his famous catchphrase.

Merchandise
In 1995, Thinkway Toys introduced a 12-inch-tall Buzz Lightyear figure.The figure was subject to mass sales in the Christmas after the film's release, mainly in the United States and the United Kingdom. In 1995, Thinkway did not think that Toy Story would be that popular and hence did not make enough dolls to meet demand, as referenced in Toy Story 2. Originally, Tim Allen's voice was on the action figure, but later models feature a voice actor who sounds similar to Allen.In October 2009 and 2010, to coincide with Toy Story's 3-D re-release and the release of Toy Story 3 respectively, Thinkway Toys released a replica Buzz Lightyear figure based on the figure in the Toy Story movies as part of their Toy Story Collection series of toys and Disney released their own version of a replica Buzz Lightyear figure. Both Buzz Lightyears were much more accurately detailed than the other Buzz Lightyear figures and both had features similar to the figure seen in the movie with similar pop-out wings complete with blinking lights at the wingtips, laser, wrist communicator and the two figures had over 65 and 30 phrases with an original voice respectively. However, the Thinkway Toys figure lacks the karate chop action, while the Disney Store version has it. Only the Thinkway Toys figure comes with a Certificate of Authenticity and both come packaged in the spaceship packaging as seen in the movies. Another 2009 Buzz Lightyear figure by Thinkway Toys included the utility belt from Toy Story 2.

In May 2008, NASA and Disney announced that an original Thinkway Toys Buzz Lightyear action figure would fly aboard the Space Shuttle Discovery on mission STS-124. The 12-inch toy was to remain on the International Space Station (ISS) for six months, where it would take part in an experiment and appear in a video downlink from space whilst the Space Shuttle delivers the largest module of the space station – Kibō, the Japanese Experiment Module pressurized section. The flight was arranged as part of the Toys in Space program that began in 1985.The mission launched with Buzz Lightyear aboard on May 31, 2008, to celebrate the opening of Toy Story Midway Mania! at Disney's Hollywood Studios and Disney California Adventure Park theme parks, with the ultimate destination of the ISS. The action figure "ate" dinner with the 10 astronauts and cosmonauts and was seen peering out a window aboard the ISS. The action figure stayed aboard the space station for a period of six months as part of the toys-in-space educational program.The action figure returned from the space station on September 11, 2009, aboard mission STS-128.In 2009, Lego began releasing its Lego Toy Story line, which included a 205-piece Buzz Lightyear action figure. When the figure is completely built, it has an articulating head, arms, hands, torso, legs, feet, wings, and visor. Lego also created a Buzz Lightyear minifigure. In 2016 a new version of Buzz Lightyear was created for the Lego minifigures Disney series. This minifigure featured new prints for the legs and arms of the minifigure and removed the Star Command logo from the chest of the torso piece. A simpler version of this minifigure appeared in the Toy Story 4 line, with the Star Command logo reinstated but without prints on the arms or side of the legs. Two new minifigures were made for the spin off movie Lightyear with two sets featuring his regular space suit, with one set including an alternate head and hairpiece included to have him unmasked, and a third including one of him in the orange and gray suit he wears at the beginning of the film.

Reception and legacy
Buzz can be considered a pop culture icon. In October 2007, readers of Empire voted Buzz No. 1 of the Top 20 Greatest Pixar Characters. They also rated him the 94th greatest movie character of all time.Buzz Lightyear's classic line "To Infinity... and Beyond!" has seen usage not only on T-shirts but among philosophers and mathematical theorists as well. A book about the history of infinity from 1991 (4 years before Toy Story), by Eli Maor, uses the phrase for its title. Lucia Hall of The Humanist linked the film's plot to an interpretation of humanism. She compared the phrase to "All this and heaven, too!", indicating one who is happy with a life on Earth as well as having an afterlife. The 2008 quadruple platinum song "Single Ladies" by Beyoncé includes the lyric "...and delivers me to a destiny, to infinity and beyond." Astronauts used the phrase while sending the Buzz Lightyear figure into space. The action figure was used for experiments in zero-g. Also in 2008, the phrase made international news when it was reported that a father and son had continually repeated the phrase to help them keep track of each other while treading water for 15 hours in the Atlantic Ocean.Buzz Lightyear himself was mentioned in the 2012 song "Boyfriend" by Canadian pop star Justin Bieber, for instance, in the lyric "I can be your Buzz Lightyear, fly across the globe."
The first stable public release of the Debian project used the name "Buzz" as the codename for the version 1.1.

See also
Buzz Lightyear's Space Ranger Spin
List of Toy Story characters