Passage 1:
John Camm
John Camm may refer to:

John Camm (Anglican priest) (1718–1778), president of the College of William & Mary
John Camm (Quaker preacher) (1604/5–1657), English Quaker preacher and writer
Passage 2:
Kenjgewin Teg Educational Institute
Kenjgewin Teg (formerly Kenjgewin Teg Educational Institute) is an Aboriginal-owned and controlled post-secondary institution at M'Chigeeng First Nation, on Mnidoo Mnising Manitoulin Island, Ontario, Canada. In the Ojibwe language, Kenjgewin Teg means a place of knowledge.
Programs are offered to its eight-member First Nations: 

Aundeck Omni Kaning First Nation
Constance Lake First Nation
M'Chigeeng First Nation
Sagamok First Nation
Sheguiandah First Nation
Sheshegwaning First Nation
Whitefish River First Nation
Zhiibaahaasing First Nation

History
In April 1994 the Wautebek Training Institute and Nda-Gkenjge-Gamig Educational Institute merged to create the Kenjgewin Teg Educational Institute (KTEI). Kenjgewin Teg developed Joint Management Committees with the affiliated educational institutions.In January, 2022, Kenjgewin Teg received accreditation from the Indigenous Advanced Education and Skills Council to offer certificates, diplomas and degrees.

Partnerships
University
Indigenous Teacher Education Program, Queens' University
Master of Education in World Indigenous Studies in Education (WISE), Queens' University
Master of Social Work, Indigenous Field of Study, Laurentian University

College
Practical Nursing, Fleming College
Personal Support Worker, Canadore College
Anishinaabemowin Early Childhood Education, Canadore College
Renovation Techniques: Construction Carpentry, Canadore College

See also
United Chiefs and Councils of Manitoulin
Passage 3:
Robert Ray Hamilton
Robert Ray Hamilton (March 18, 1851 – August 23, 1890) was an American politician from New York.

Early life
He was the son of Gen. Schuyler Hamilton (1822–1903); grandson of John Church Hamilton (1792–1882); and great-grandson of Alexander Hamilton (1755/7–1804) and Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton.
Robert Ray Hamilton graduated from Columbia College and Columbia Law School. He was admitted to the bar, and practiced law in New York City.

Career
He was a member of the New York State Assembly (New York Co., 11th D.) in 1881, 1886, 1887, 1888 and 1889.
Hamilton bought a half interest in a ranch owned by John Sargent in Idaho where he intended to live permanently. In May 1890, he left New York City for his ranch, to go hunting.

Personal life
In August 1889, it became known that he was married to Evangeline L. Mann (née Steele), a "notorious woman" who had ensnared him by claiming that he was the father of her child Beatrice. Evangeline Mann assaulted her maid, and was sentenced to two years in prison. In October 1889, Hamilton sued for divorce. He stated that the marriage had been performed on January 7, 1889, and told the truth about Beatrice which had been in fact some foundling used for the scheme to get money out of Hamilton (who had an income of about $40,000 a year inherited from his maternal grandfather Robert Ray). It was later proved in court that Eva had been married already to one Joshua L. Mann before she ever knew Hamilton, and Mann sued for divorce in 1893.
In September 1890, he was found dead in the Snake River, near the Southern end of Yellowstone Park, apparently having drowned and having been in the water for several days, making identification somewhat difficult. An investigation accused John I. Sergent of murdering Hamilton, but Sergent was found to be legally insane and was never prosecuted for the crime.
Passage 4:
Maltepe University
Maltepe University (Turkish: Maltepe Üniversitesi) is a private university located in Maltepe district of Istanbul, Turkey. It was established on July 9, 1997 by "Istanbul Marmara Education Foundation" (İMEV).  The institution has a broad scope of education starting from the elementary level to university. The first students graduated in June 2001.

Medium of teaching
Turkish is chosen as the medium of teaching, unlike many other private universities in Turkey, with the belief that an individual can best learn and perform in the mother tongue. However, having the awareness that English is indispensable in the international scientific arena, the university includes an English teaching program. Those students who are not exempt in the proficiency exam of the English language department enroll in the two-semester intensive English preparatory program. All students take compulsory English courses during their undergraduate education.

Academic programs
Undergraduate programs
Faculty of paedagogy (psychological guidance, English language)
Faculty of natural sciences and literature (philosophy, mathematics, psychology)
Faculty of fine arts (acting, film, plastic arts, cartoon making-animation, photography)
Faculty of law
Faculty of economics and business administration (economics, business administration, international relations and European Union)
Faculty of communication sciences (visual communication and design, public relations and publicity, radio-cinema-TV)
Faculty of architecture (graphic design, interior decoration, architecture)
Faculty of engineering (computer engineering, electronics, industrial engineering)
Faculty of medicine (Nursing)Vocational school
Radio–TV programming
Tourism and hotel management
Computer technology and programming
Film production techniquesPost-graduate and doctorate programs
Institute of social sciences (education administration, economics policy, business administration, law, psychology, human sciences, philosophy, radio-cinema-TV)
Institute of natural sciences (computer science, industrial engineering, mathematics, architecture, civil engineering-earthquake engineering)General
Atatürk's reforms and history of the Republic of Turkey
Foreign languages

Academic staff
As of 2003 academic year, the university holds 300 teaching staff of which 205 are full-time.

Campus
Maltepe University has three campuses. The main campus in Maltepe Eğitim Köyü (Maltepe Education Village), located at Maltepe, Büyükbakkalköy, was opened in September 2003. The President's Office and administrative units are situated on this campus, which extends over an area of 100 hectares comprising faculty buildings, indoor/outdoor sports facilities, an olympic-size swimming pool and student social activities centers.
The university's Dragos campus is located at Dragos, close to the shore on an area of 15,000 m². The Vocational School, The Science Institute, The Social Sciences Institute and The Continuous Education Center are all located on this campus.
The Faculty of medicine and its hospital, which serves its students as an application hospital, are both located in Maltepe, on the campus where the university was first founded.

Affiliations
The university is a member of the Caucasus University Association.

Gallery
See also
List of universities in Turkey
Passage 5:
Jeffrey Black
Jeffrey Black (born September 6, 1962) is an Australian baritone who has had an active international performance career since the early 1980s. A frequent performer with Opera Australia and the Glyndebourne Festival Opera, he has performed leading role with the Metropolitan Opera, Opéra Bastille, Lyric Opera of Chicago, Bavarian State Opera, and the Royal Opera, Covent Garden among other opera houses. He is particularly known for his portrayals of Guglielmo in Mozart's Così fan tutte, Count Almaviva in Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro, and Figaro in Rossini's The Barber of Seville.

Early life and education
Born in Brisbane, Black was educated at the Anglican Church Grammar School. In his youth he was a boy soprano in the choir at the Cathedral of St Stephen, Brisbane for several years. He studied singing at the Queensland Conservatorium of Music where graduated with a Bachelor of Music degree in 1983. At the Conservatorium he participated in opera workshops led by tenor Donald Smith whose influence oriented his career towards opera. He appeared in many of the operas staged by the conservatorium students and post-graduate students, including appearing in the role of Figaro, as a first year opera student, in the conservatorium's 1981 production of The Marriage of Figaro at the Basil Jones Theatre (now called the QUT Gardens Theatre).In 1983 Black won the Marianne Mathy Scholarship in the Australian Singing Competition which enabled him to pursue further vocal training at the National Opera Studio in London in 1984. In 1985 he was awarded the Armstrong-Martin Scholarship. He later pursued further vocal training with Audrey Langford and Jane Chapman in London.

Performance career
Black began his professional career in the early 1980s as a concert baritone. He made his debut as a principal singer with the Opera Australia (OA) in 1984 as a featured soloist in a concert of works by Jean-Philippe Rameau at the Sydney Opera House. His first role in an opera with the OA was in 1985 as Mercutio in Charles Gounod's Roméo et Juliette. He notably performed the role of Nevers in Les Huguenots with the OA in 1990 for the farewell performance of Joan Sutherland as Marguerite de Valois. He also performed and recorded the roles of Nerone and Ottone, both transposed down an octave from the original score, in Claudio Monteverdi's L'incoronazione di Poppea with the AO in 1988.Black performed regularly at the Sydney Opera House with the OA for twenty years. His roles with that company included Papageno in Mozart's The Magic Flute (1986),  Schaunard in Giacomo Puccini's La bohème (1986), Dr. Falke in Die Fledermaus (1986), Dandini in Rossini's La Cenerentola (1987),  Figaro in The Barber of Seville (1989),  Guglielmo in Così fan tutte (1990),  Enrico in Donizetti's Lucia di Lammermoor (1996 and 2003), the title role of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's Eugene Onegin (1997), Wolfram in Richard Wagner's Tannhäuser (1998) Rodrigo in Verdi's Don Carlo (1999), the Count in Richard Strauss's Capriccio (2000), Belcore in L'elisir d'amore (2001), Count Almaviva in The Marriage of Figaro (2002), and Danilo in  The Merry Widow (2004). In 1991 he had a critical triumph with the OA in the title role of Mozart's Don Giovanni; later reprising the role with the company in 2003.In 1986 Black made his first appearance in the United Kingdom with the Glyndebourne Festival Opera (GFO). He returned to the GFO numerous times, portraying such roles as Demetrius in Benjamin Britten's A Midsummer Night's Dream (1989), the Count in Richard Strauss's Capriccio (1990), and Count Almaviva in The Marriage of Figaro (1991). In 1987 he made his debut at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden as Harlequin in Richard Strauss's Ariadne auf Naxos, and appeared at the Opera Queensland in Brisbane as Dandini in Rossini's La Cenerentola. He returned to Covent Garden as Sid in Britten's Albert Herring (1989), Figaro in Rossini's The Barber of Seville (1990), and Dandini in Rossini's La Cenerentola (1991).Black made his first appearance in the United States as Guglielmo in Così fan tutte with the Los Angeles Opera in 1988; a role which he repeated at the Lyric Opera of Chicago (1993), the Salzburg Festival (1993), and the Aix-en-Provence Festival. In 1991 he made his debut at the Opéra Bastille in Paris as Lescaut in Puccini's Manon Lescaut. In 1992 he portrayed the Pirate King in Gilbert and Sullivan's The Pirates of Penzance with the Victoria State Opera. He performed the role of Fieramosca in Berlioz's Benvenuto Cellini at the Grand Théâtre de Genève in 1992, and returned there in 1995 as Riccardo in Bellini's I puritani.In 1995 Black made his debut at the Metropolitan Opera in New York City as Figaro in The Barber of Seville; a role which he has also performed with the San Francisco Opera (1992), the San Diego Opera (1993), and the Bavarian State Opera (1995). In 1994 he returned to the San Diego Opera in the title role of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's Eugene Onegin, appeared in Los Angeles as Marcello in La bohème', and performed the role of Demetrius in Britten's A Midsummer Night's Dream with the Israeli Opera.In 2000 Black made his debut with the Michigan Opera Theatre as Captain Balstrode in Benjamin Britten's Peter Grimes. In 2004 he portrayed Escamillo in Opera Queensland's production of Georges Bizet's Carmen with Yvonne Fontane in the tile role. In 2005 he performed the role of Danilo in a staging celebrating the 100th anniversary of The Merry Widow with the Welsh National Opera.In 2009 Black sang the title role in a concert version of Verdi's Simon Boccanegra with the Chelsea Opera Group at Queen Elizabeth Hall. That same year he performed the role of Frank in Die Fledermaus with the London Lyric Opera. In 2010 he portrayed Gianciotto in Riccardo Zandonai's Francesca da Rimini with Opera Holland Park.Black has also performed in operas with the Netherlands Opera, Vlaamse Opera, Opéra de Monte-Carlo, Washington National Opera, Teatro Colón, and Opera North. His stage repertoire also included the role of Ford in Falstaff.

Personal life
He met his wife Janice on stage when playing Figaro in the Marriage of Figaro and she played Suzanna. They have a son and a daughter. Black's son has diabetes, and he has been active in fundraising in support of this cause.
Passage 6:
Bobelle Sconiers Harrell
Ina Bobelle "Bobbie" Wright Sconiers Harrell (1923-2012) was a pharmacist and pilot who was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal (as part of the Civil Air Patrol) on December 10, 2014.She was born in Fort Walton Beach, and was the first female student admitted to the School of Pharmacy at what is today Auburn University, and was then Alabama Polytechnic Institute. She graduated in 1944 at the top of her class with Phi Kappa Phi and Cardinal Key honors. She later became one of the first women licensed to practice pharmacy in Florida. She was also licensed to practice pharmacy in Alabama.Bobelle had married at age 18, to 1st Lt. Ewart T. Sconiers, but he died while imprisoned as a POW during World War II in Stalag Luft III (of “The Great Escape” fame). [13] Shortly before Bobelle died, she learned his remains had been found. She and her second husband, Philip B. Harrell, owned Harrell's Drug Store from 1956 through 1982.According to her own journal, she made her first solo flight on April 5, 1945. That year she received a pilot's license and was trained to fly missions with the Civil Air Patrol. Bobelle moved to Crestview in 1946, where she worked at Brackin's Pharmacy and flew with the patrol between Pensacola and Birmingham off and on for two years.
Passage 7:
HOSA (organization)
HOSA – Future Health Professionals, formerly known as Health Occupations Students of America (HOSA), is an international career and technical student organization (CTSO) endorsed by the U.S. Department of Education and the Health Science Technology Education Division of ACTE. HOSA is composed of middle school, secondary, and post-secondary/collegiate students, along with professionals, alumni, and honorary members. It is headquartered in Southlake, Texas, and is the largest student organization that prepares students to enter healthcare and similar fields, with membership in the United States, U.S. Territories, Canada, China, South Korea, and Mexico.

History
HOSA was founded in 1976 out of a task force from the American Vocational Association in order to determine whether a new student organization accommodating healthcare students was necessary.
From November 4–7, 1975, the State Department of Education and Division of Vocational Education in New Jersey with 18 representatives from Alabama, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma and Texas voted to form the American Health Occupations Education Student Organization.
On November 10–13, 1976, in a constitutional convention in Arlington, Texas AHOESO adopted bylaws, which also changed the organization's name to Health Occupations Students of America; elected national leaders; selected colors and a motto; made plans to design an emblem; and set the first National Leadership Conference for the spring of 1978 in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.In 2004, the organization dropped the acronym from its name, and began publishing all documents under the brand "HOSA – Future Health Professionals."

Chartered associations
As of 2020, HOSA has grown to more than 50 chartered associations in several countries, including the United States and its territories, Canada, China, South Korea, and Mexico. HOSA's chartered associations are:

Mission statement
The mission of HOSA is to empower HOSA-Future Health Professionals to become leaders in the global health community through education, collaboration, and experience.

Uniform
The official HOSA uniform consists of a navy-blue suit with maroon accent in the form of a tie for men or a scarf for women. The HOSA emblem is affixed to the suit jacket.

International Leadership Conferences (ILCs)
Members meet annually at an International Leadership Conference held in late June in cities across the United States. Selected major cities for hosting the conference rotate every few years. Over 7,500 students participate in general sessions, competitive events, and leadership experiences, all while networking with health sciences students representing nearly all 50 states and countries including Canada, China, and Mexico.

Competitive events
HOSA offers 82 competitive events, ranging from skill-based to leadership and team-based. The event groups are as follows: Health science, health professions, leadership, and recognition events. Members compete at the regional, state, and international levels. Those who place in the top three positions at the state level are given the opportunity to compete at the international level.
Passage 8:
Roberts Vaux Junior High School
The Promise Academy at Roberts Vaux High School (commonly referred to as the Roberts Vaux Promise Academy) is an historic, American high school building that is located in the North Central neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Named for American jurist, abolitionist, and philanthropist Roberts Vaux (1786-1836), it was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.

History and architectural features
Designed by Irwin T. Catharine and built between 1936 and 1938, this historic structure is a four-story, twenty-three-bay, "U"-shaped, yellow brick building that was created in a Moderne/Art Deco style. It features projecting end pavilions, terra cotta decorative work, and a two-story, stone, Tudor-arched entryway.It was named for American jurist, abolitionist, and philanthropist Roberts Vaux (1786-1836). Jacob C. White, Jr. served as principal from 1864 to 1896 and was the first black school principal in Philadelphia. During his tenure, White reformed the institute and became the leading figure in the field of urban education in Philadelphia.
During the 1980s and 1990s, Vaux developed a positive reputation for creating national and state chess champions. Mathematics teacher Jeff Chesin coached the team that first decade, but the team disbanded when Chesin Vaux left for another school. It was then resurrected during the 1990s by special education teacher Salome Thomas-Elwho later became the school's principal. During the early 2000s, the chess program disbanded again. 
While teaching at Vaux High in North Philadelphia during the 2000s, rugby player Larry Conlan saw a need for his students to positively channel their aggression and started an after-school rugby club in 2012. 
Added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1988, the school was closed in 2013 as part of Philadelphia's shutdown of twenty-three district-run schools. Displaced students were enrolled in Strawberry Mansion High School and Benjamin Franklin High School. The school then reopened for the 2017-2018 academic year under the new leadership of Big Picture Philadelphia.

See also
Passage 9:
Yeni Həyat, Khachmaz
Yeni Həyat (also, Yeni-Khayat) is a village and municipality in the Khachmaz Rayon of Azerbaijan.  It has a population of 3,503.
Passage 10:
James Meredith
James Howard Meredith (born June 25, 1933) is an American civil rights activist, writer, political adviser, and United States Air Force veteran who became, in 1962, the first African-American student admitted to the racially segregated University of Mississippi after the intervention of the federal government (an event that was a flashpoint in the civil rights movement). Inspired by President John F. Kennedy's inaugural address, Meredith decided to exercise his constitutional rights and apply to the University of Mississippi. His goal was to put pressure on the Kennedy administration to enforce civil rights for African Americans. The admission of Meredith ignited the Ole Miss riot of 1962 where Meredith's life was threatened and 31,000 American servicemen were required to quell the violence - the largest ever invocation of the Insurrection Act of 1807.In 1966, Meredith planned a solo 220-mile (350-kilometer) March Against Fear from Memphis, Tennessee, to Jackson, Mississippi; he wanted to highlight continuing racism in the South and encourage voter registration after passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. He did not want major civil rights organizations involved. The second day, he was shot by a white gunman and suffered numerous wounds. Leaders of major organizations vowed to complete the march in his name after he was taken to the hospital. While Meredith was recovering, more people from across the country became involved as marchers. He rejoined the march and when Meredith and other leaders entered Jackson on June 26, they were leading an estimated 15,000 marchers, in what was the largest civil rights march in Mississippi. During the march, more than 4,000 African Americans registered to vote, and it was a catalyst to continued community organizing and additional registration.
In 2002 and again in 2012, the University of Mississippi led year-long series of events to celebrate the 40th and 50th anniversaries of Meredith's integration of the institution. He was among numerous speakers invited to the campus, where a statue of him commemorates his role. The Lyceum-The Circle Historic District at the center of the campus has been designated as a National Historic Landmark for these events.

Early life and education
Meredith was born in 1933 in Kosciusko, Mississippi, the son of Roxie (Patterson) and Moses Meredith. He is of African-American, English Canadian, Scots and Choctaw heritage. His family nickname was "J-Boy". European traders intermarried with some Choctaw during the colonial period. In the 1830s, thousands of Choctaw chose to stay in Mississippi and become United States citizens when most of the tribe left their traditional homeland for Indian Territory during the federally imposed removal. Those in the state had unions with European Americans and African Americans (some of whom were enslaved), adding to the multi-racial population in the developing territory.Meredith completed 11th grade at Attala County Training School (which was segregated as "white" and "colored" under the state's Jim Crow laws) and completed 12th grade at Gibbs High School in St. Petersburg, Florida. He graduated from high school in 1951. Then, Meredith enlisted in the United States Air Force. He served from 1951 to 1960.Afterward Meredith attended Jackson State University for two years, achieving good grades.

University of Mississippi
Challenge to the University
In 1961, inspired the day before by U.S. President John F. Kennedy, Meredith started to apply to the University of Mississippi, intending to insist on his civil rights to attend the state-funded university. It still admitted only white students under the state's culture of racial segregation, although the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Brown v. Board of Education (1954) that segregation of public schools was unconstitutional, as they are supported by all the taxpayers.
Meredith wrote in his application that he wanted admission for his country, race, family, and himself. He said,

Nobody handpicked me...I believed, and believe now, that I have a Divine Responsibility... I am familiar with the probable difficulties involved in such a move as I am undertaking and I am fully prepared to pursue it all the way to a degree from the University of Mississippi.
He was twice denied admission. During this time, he was advised by Medgar Evers, who was head of the state chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP).
On May 31, 1961, Meredith, with backing of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi, alleging that the university had rejected him only because of his race, as he had a highly successful record of military service and academic courses. The case went through many hearings, after which the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled that Meredith had the right to be admitted to the state school. The state appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which supported the ruling of the appeals court.On September 13, 1962, the District Court entered an injunction directing the members of the Board of Trustees and the officials of the University to register Meredith. The Democratic Governor of Mississippi, Ross Barnett, declared "no school will be integrated in Mississippi while I am your governor".  The state legislature quickly created a plan. They passed a law that denied admission to any person "who has a crime of moral turpitude against him" or who had been convicted of any felony offense or not pardoned. The same day it became law, Meredith was accused and convicted of "false voter registration," in absentia, in Jackson County. The conviction against Meredith was trumped up: Meredith both owned land in northern Mississippi and was registered to vote in Jackson, where he lived. "Later the clerk testified that Meredith was qualified to register and vote in Jackson [where he was registered]."
On September 20, the federal government obtained an injunction against enforcement of this Act and of the two state court decrees that had barred Meredith's registration. That day Meredith was rebuffed again by Governor Barnett in his efforts to gain admission, though university officials were prepared to admit him. On September 28, the Court of Appeals, en banc and after a hearing, found the Governor in civil contempt and ordered that he be arrested and pay a fine of $10,000 for each day that he kept up the refusal, unless he complied by October 2. On September 29, Lieutenant Governor Paul B. Johnson Jr. (elected Governor on November 5, 1963) was also found in contempt by a panel of the court, and a similar order was entered against him, with a fine of $5,000 a day.Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy had a series of phone calls with Governor Barnett between September 27 to October 1. Barnett reluctantly agreed to let Meredith enroll in the university, but secretly bargained with Kennedy on a plan which would allow him to save face.
Barnett committed to maintain civil order. Robert Kennedy ordered 127 U.S. Marshals as well as 316 deputized U.S. Border Patrol and 97 Federal Bureau of Prisons officers to accompany Meredith during his arrival and registration. On September 29, President Kennedy issued a proclamation commanding all persons engaged in the obstruction of the laws and the orders of the courts to "cease and desist therefrom and to disperse and retire peaceably forthwith", citing his authority under 10 U.S.C. § 332, § 333, and § 334 to use the militia or the armed forces to suppress any insurrection, domestic violence, unlawful combination, or conspiracy.

Rioting at the University
On the evening of September 29, the day after State Senator George Yarbrough withdrew the State Highway Police, a riot broke out. Whites opposing integration had been gathering at the campus and began fighting with federal agents. Despite the Kennedy administration's reluctance to use force, it ordered the nationalized Mississippi National Guard and federal troops to the campus. In the violent clashes which followed, two civilians were killed by gunshot wounds, and white rioters burned cars, pelted federal agents and soldiers with rocks, bricks and small arms fire, and damaged university property.

Enrollment
The day after the riots, on October 1, 1962, after federal and state forces took control, Meredith became the first African-American student to enroll at the University of Mississippi. Meredith's admission is regarded as a pivotal moment in the history of civil rights in the United States.
Many students harassed Meredith during his two semesters on campus, but others accepted him. According to first-person accounts, students living in Meredith's dorm bounced basketballs on the floor just above his room through all hours of the night. Other students ostracized him: when Meredith walked into the cafeteria for meals, the students eating would turn their backs. If Meredith sat at a table with other students, all of whom were white, the students would immediately get up and go to another table. He persisted through harassment and extreme isolation to graduate on August 18, 1963, with a degree in political science.

Education and activism
Meredith continued his education, focusing on political science, at the University of Ibadan in Nigeria. He returned to the United States in 1965. He attended law school through a scholarship at Columbia University and earned an LL.B (law degree) in 1968.In 1966, Meredith organized and led a solo, personal March Against Fear for 220 miles from Memphis, Tennessee, to Jackson, Mississippi, beginning on June 6, 1966. Inviting only black men to join him, he wanted to highlight continuing racial oppression in the Mississippi Delta, as well as to encourage blacks to register and vote following passage of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, which authorized federal oversight and enforcement of rights. Governor Paul Johnson promised to allow the march and provide State Highway Police protection. Meredith wanted blacks in Mississippi to overcome fear of violence.Despite police, on the second day, Meredith was shot and wounded by Aubrey James Norvell, a white man whose motives were never determined, and who pleaded guilty at trial. Meredith was quickly taken to a hospital. Leaders of major organizations rallied at the news and vowed to complete the march in Meredith's name. They struggled to reconcile differing goals, but succeeded in attracting more than 10,000 marchers from local towns and across the country by the end.Meredith recovered from his wounds and rejoined the march before it reached Jackson on June 26, when 15,000 marchers entered the city in what had become the largest civil rights march in state history. During the march, more than 4,000 black Mississippians registered to vote. Continued community organizing was catalyzed by these events, and African Americans began to enter the political system again. Black voters in Mississippi have established a high rate of voter registration and voting participation.

Political career
In 1967, while living and studying in New York, Meredith decided to run as a Republican against incumbent Adam Clayton Powell Jr., a multi-term Democrat, in a special election for the Congressional seat in Harlem. He withdrew from the race and Powell was re-elected. Meredith said later of his campaign, "The Republican Party [of New York] made me an offer: full support in every way, everything." He had full access to top New York Republicans.After returning to Mississippi to live, in 1972 Meredith ran for the US Senate against Democratic senator James Eastland, who had been the incumbent for 29 years in what had operated as a one-party state. Following provisions of a new state constitution in 1890 that made voter registration extremely difficult, African Americans had been effectively disenfranchised and the Republican Party had been crippled. Meredith conceded that he had little chance of winning unless Governor George Wallace of Alabama entered the presidential race and split the white vote.An active Republican, Meredith served from 1989 to 1991 as a domestic adviser on the staff of United States Senator Jesse Helms. Faced with criticism from the civil rights community for working for the avowed segregationist, Meredith said that he had applied to every member of the Senate and House offering his services, and only Helms' office responded. He also wanted a chance to do research at the Library of Congress.In 2002, officials at the University of Mississippi celebrated the 40th anniversary of Meredith's historic admission and integration of the institution with a year-long series of events. Of the celebration, Meredith said,

It was an embarrassment for me to be there, and for somebody to celebrate it, oh my God. I want to go down in history, and have a bunch of things named after me, but believe me that ain't it.
He said he had achieved his main goal at the time by getting the federal government to enforce his rights as a citizen. He saw his actions as "an assault on white supremacy." In 2003, he was far more proud that his son Joseph Meredith graduated as the top doctoral student at the university's graduate business school.

Legacy and honors
In 2002, the University of Mississippi honored the 40th anniversary of Meredith's admission with numerous events.
In 2006, a statue of him was dedicated on campus in his honor.
In 2012, the University commemorated the 50th anniversary of the historic admission, featuring a range of speakers, artists, lectures and events during the year.
That year Meredith received the Harvard Graduate School of Education 'Medal for Education Impact' and was the school's convocation speaker. Meredith said it was the first award in 50 years he had accepted.

Cultural depictions
In 2011 miniseries The Kennedys, he was portrayed by Matthew G. Brown in episode five of the series, Life Sentences.

Political viewpoint
A highly independent man, Meredith has identified as an individual American citizen who demanded and received the constitutional rights held by any American, not as a participant in the Civil Rights Movement. There have been tensions between him and leaders of major organizations of the movement. When interviewed in 2002, the 40th anniversary of his enrollment at University of Mississippi, Meredith said, "Nothing could be more insulting to me than the concept of civil rights. It means perpetual second-class citizenship for me and my kind."Meredith was a supporter of the unsuccessful 1967 gubernatorial bid of ex-Mississippi Governor (and avowed segregationist) Ross Barnett, as well as the 1991 gubernatorial campaign of Louisiana State Representative and ex-Klansman David Duke.In a 2002 interview with CNN, Meredith said of his efforts to integrate Ole Miss, "I was engaged in a war. I considered myself engaged in a war from Day One. And my objective was to force the federal government—the Kennedy administration at that time—into a position where they would have to use the United States military force to enforce my rights as a citizen."

Personal life
On March 14, 1956, Meredith married Mary June Wiggins. She later worked as a high school English teacher. They had three sons, James, John and Joseph Howard Meredith.  Mary June Meredith died of heart failure in December 1979.
In 1982, Meredith married Judy Alsobrooks in Gary, Indiana. She had one son, Kip Naylor, from a previous marriage. Jessica Howard Meredith was born to their union.  The couple live in Jackson, Mississippi.

Works
In 1966, his memoir, Three Years in Mississippi, was published by the Indiana University Press.
He has self-published several books on politics and society.

See also
List of African-American pioneers in desegregation of higher education
List of civil rights leaders
School integration in the United States
Passage 11:
Student loans in the United States
In the United States, student loans are a form of financial aid intended to help students access higher education. In 2018, 70 percent of higher education graduates had used loans to cover some or all of their expenses. With notable exceptions, student loans must be repaid, in contrast to other forms of financial aid such as scholarships, which are not repaid, and grants, which rarely have to be repaid. Student loans may be discharged through bankruptcy, but this is difficult.Student loan debt has proliferated since 2006, totaling $1.73 trillion by July 2021. In 2019, students who borrowed to complete a bachelor's degree had about $30,000 of debt upon graduation.: 1   Almost half of all loans are for graduate school, typically in much higher amounts.: 1   Loan amounts vary widely based on race, social class, age, institution type, and degree sought. As of 2017, student debt constituted the largest non-mortgage liability for US households. Research indicates that increasing borrowing limits drives tuition increases.Student loan defaults are disproportionately common in the for-profit college sector. Around 2010, about 10 percent of college students attended for-profit colleges, but almost 40 percent of all defaults on federal student loans were to for-profit attendees. The schools whose students have the highest amount of debt are University of Phoenix, Walden University, Nova Southeastern University, Capella University, and Strayer University. Except for Nova Southeastern, they are all for-profit. In 2018, the National Center for Education Statistics reported that the 12-year student loan default rate for for-profit colleges was 52 percent.The default rate for borrowers who do not complete their degree is three times the rate for those who did.: 1  A Brookings Institution study from 2023 revealed that when the government pauses repayment on student loans, it most often "...benefit[s] affluent borrowers the most..." primarily due to affluent borrowers holding the largest student debt balances.

History
Federal student loans were first offered in 1958 under the National Defense Education Act (NDEA). They were available only to select categories of students, such as those studying engineering, science, or education. The program was established in response to the Soviet Union's launch of the Sputnik satellite. It addressed the widespread perception that the United States had fallen behind in science and technology. Student loans became more broadly available in the 1960s under the Higher Education Act of 1965, with the goal of encouraging greater social mobility and equal opportunity.In 1967, the publicly owned Bank of North Dakota made the first federally-insured student loan.The US first major government loan program was the Student Loan Marketing Association (Sallie Mae), formed in 1973.Before 2010, federal loans included:

loans originated and funded directly by the Department of Education (DOE)
government guaranteed loans originated and funded by private investors.Direct-to-consumer private loans were the fastest-growing segment of education finance. The "percentage of undergraduates obtaining private loans from 2003–04 to 2007–08 rose from 5 percent to 14 percent" and was under legislative scrutiny due to the lack of school certification.The rules for disability discharge underwent major changes as a result of the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008. The regulations took effect July 1, 2010. In June 2010, the amount of student loan debt held by Americans exceeded the amount of credit card debt held by Americans. At that time, student loan debt totalled at least $830 billion, of which approximately 80% was federal and 20% was private. By the fourth quarter of 2015, total outstanding student loans owned and securitized had surpassed $1.3 trillion.Guaranteed loans were eliminated in 2010 through the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act and replaced with direct loans. The Obama administration claimed that guaranteed loans benefited private companies at taxpayer expense but did not reduce student costs.The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA) ended private-sector lending under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) starting July 1, 2010; all subsidized and unsubsidized Stafford loans, PLUS loans, and Consolidation loans are under the Federal Direct Loan Program.As of July 1, 2013, borrowers determined to be disabled by the Social Security Administration would be accepted for loan discharge if the SSA placed the individual on a five- to seven-year review cycle. As of January 1, 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 established that debt discharged due to the death or disability of the borrower was no longer treated as taxable income. (This provision is scheduled to sunset on December 31, 2025.)In an effort to improve the student loan market, LendKey, SoFi (Social Finance, Inc.) and CommonBond began offering student loans and refinancing at lower rates than traditional lenders, using an alumni-funded model. According to a 2016 analysis by online student loan marketplace Credible, about 8 million borrowers could qualify for refinancing.The Federal Reserve Bank of New York's February 2017 Quarterly Report on Household Debt and Credit reported 11.2% of aggregate student loan debt was 90 or more days delinquent.On July 25, 2018, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos issued an order declaring that the Borrower Defense Program (enacted in November 2016), would be replaced with a stricter repayment policy, effective July 1, 2019. When a school closes for fraud before conferring degrees, students would have to prove that they were financially harmed. As of 2018, 10% of borrowers were in default after three years and 16 percent after five years.In 2019, President Donald Trump ordered loan forgiveness for permanently disabled veterans, saving 25,000 veterans an average of $30,000 each. The same year, Theresa Sweet and other student loan debtors filed a claim against the US Department of Education, arguing that they had been defrauded by their colleges. The debtors filed under a rule known as Borrower Defense to Repayment.In 2021, student loan servicers began dropping out of the federal student loan business, including FedLoan Servicing on July 8, Granite State Management and Resources on July 20, and Navient on September 28. According to Sallie Mae, as of 2021, 1 in 8 families lenders are using private student loans when federal financing doesn't cover all college costs.In July 2021, the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that private student loans are dischargeable in bankruptcy, following two other cases.In August 2021, the Biden administration announced it would use executive action to cancel $5.8 billion in student loans held by 323,000 people who are permanently disabled.Starting in March 2020, federal student loan borrowers received temporary relief from student loan payments during the COVID-19 pandemic. This relief was subsequently extended multiple times, and is set to expire at the end of June 2023.According to repayment data released by the Education Department, in December 2021, just 1.2 percent of borrowers were continuing to pay down their loans during the over two years of optional deferment.In November 2022, federal judge William Alsup ruled for immediate relief for about 200,000 student debtors and in April 2023 US Supreme Justice Elana Kagan declined to grant emergency relief to three for-profit colleges.In February 2023, the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments in Biden v. Nebraska concerning President Biden's order to cancel student loan debt for an estimated 40 million debtors.In June 2023, the Supreme Court voted in favour of Nebraska to block Biden’s plan to forgive federal student loans.

Overview
Student loans play a significant role in U.S. higher education. Nearly 20 million Americans attend college each year, of whom close to 12 million –  or 60% –  borrow annually to help cover costs. As of 2021, approximately 45 million Americans held student debt, with an average balance of approximately $30,000.In Europe, higher education receives more government funding, making student loans less common. In parts of Asia and Latin America government funding for post-secondary education is lower –  usually limited to flagship universities, like UNAM in Mexico –  and government programs under which students can borrow money are uncommon.In the United States, college is funded by government grants, scholarships, loans. The primary grant program is Pell grants.Student loans come in several varieties, but are basically either federal loans or private student loans. Federal loans are either subsidized (the government pays the interest) and unsubsidized. Federal student loans are subsidized for undergraduates only. Subsidized loans generally defer payments and interest until some period (usually six months) after the student has left school. Some states have their own loan programs, as do some colleges. In almost all cases, these student loans have better conditions than private loans.Student loans may be used for college-related expenses, including tuition, room and board, books, computers, and transportation.

Demographics
Approximately 30% of all college students do not borrow. In 2019, the average undergraduate who had taken on debt had a loan balance of about $30,000 upon graduation. Almost half of the student loans are for graduate education, and those loan amounts are typically much higher.: 1

Social class
According to the Saint Louis Federal Reserve Bank, "existing racial wealth disparities and soaring higher education costs may replicate racial wealth disparities across generations by driving racial disparities in student loan debt load and repayment."Low-income students often prefer grants and scholarships over loans because of their difficulty repaying them. In 2004, 88.5% of Pell Grant recipients who had bachelor's degrees graduated with student loan debt. After college, students struggle to break into a higher income bracket because of the loans they owe. Though, it's been shown that when it comes to student loan forgiveness and advocacy around this issue, lower-socioeconomic groups are the ones most motivated to contact their legislators about student loans. In 1995, 64 percent of students whose family incomes falling below $35,000 were contacting their legislators concerning student loans.

Race and gender
According to the New York Times, "recent black graduates of four-year colleges owe, on average, $7,400 more than their white peers. Four years after graduation, they still owe an average of $53,000, almost twice as much as whites."According to an analysis by Demos, 12 years after entering college:

White men paid off 44 percent of their student-loan balance
White women paid off 28 percent
Black men saw their balances grow 11 percent
Black women saw their loan balances grow 13 percent

Age
According to a CNBC analysis, the highest student debt balances are carried by adults aged 25–49, with the lowest debt loads held by those aged 62 and older.As of 2021, approximately 7.8 million Americans from 18 to 25 carry student loan debt, with an average balance of almost $15,000. For adults between the ages of 35 and 49, the average individual balance owed exceeded $42,000. The average debt for adults between 50 and 61 is slightly lower. These balances include loans for their education and their children.

Federal loans
Loans to students
Stafford and Perkins loans were federal loans made to students. These loans did not consider credit history (most students have no credit history); approval was automatic if the student met program requirements. Nearly all students are eligible to receive federal loans.

Payment/discharge
The student makes no payments while enrolled at least half-time. If a student drops below half time or graduates, a six-month deferment begins. If the student returns to least half-time status, the loans are again deferred, but a second episode no longer qualifies and repayment must begin. All Perkins loans and some undergraduate Stafford loans are subsidized. Loan amounts are limited.
Many deferment and forbearance options are offered in the Federal Direct Student Loan program.Disabled borrowers have the possibility of discharge. Other discharge provisions are available for teachers in specific critical subjects or in a school that has more than 30% of its students on reduced-price lunch. They qualify for discharge of Stafford, Perkins, and Federal Family Education Loan Program loans up to $77,500.Any person employed full-time by a 501(c)(3) non-profit group, or another qualifying public service organization, or serving in a full-time AmeriCorps or Peace Corps position, qualifies for discharge after 120 qualifying payments. However, loan discharge is considered taxable income. Loans discharged that were not the result of long-term public service employment constitute taxable income.
Student loan borrowers may have their existing federal student loan debt removed if they can prove that their school misled them. The program is called Borrower Defense to Repayment or Borrower Defense.Subsidies are conditional depending on financial need. Pricing and loan limits are determined by Congress. Undergraduates typically receive lower interest rates, while graduate students typically can borrow more. Disregarding risk has been criticized as contributing to inefficiency. Financial needs may vary from school to school. The government covers interest charges while the student is in college. For example, those who borrow $10,000 during college owe $10,000 upon graduation.

Terms
Loans are guaranteed by DOE, either directly or through guarantee agencies.
The dependent undergraduate limits are $5,500 per year for freshman undergraduates, $6,500 for sophomore undergraduates, and $7,500 per year for junior and senior undergraduates, as well as students enrolled in teacher certification or coursework preparatory for graduate programs.For independent undergraduates, the limits are $9,500 per year for freshmen, $10,500 for sophomores, and $12,500 per year for juniors and seniors, as well as students enrolled in teacher certification or preparatory coursework for graduate programs.
Unsubsidized loans are also guaranteed, but interest accrues during study. Nearly all students are eligible for these loans regardless of financial need. Those who borrow $10,000 during college owe $10,000 plus interest upon graduation. Accrued interest is added to the loan amount, and the borrower makes payments on the total. Students can make payments while studying.
Graduate students have higher limits: $8,500 for subsidized Stafford and $12,500 (varying by course of study) for unsubsidized Stafford. For graduate students, the Perkins limit is $6,000 per year.

Stafford loan aggregate limits
Stafford borrowers cannot exceed aggregate limits for subsidized and unsubsidized loans. For dependent undergraduates, the aggregate limit is $57,500, while subsidized loans are limited to $23,000. Students who reach the maximum in subsidized loans may (based on grade level—undergraduate, graduate/professional, etc.) add a loan of less than or equal to the amount they would have been eligible for in subsidized loans. Once aggregate limits are met, the student is ineligible for additional Stafford loans until they pay back a portion of the borrowed funds. A student who has paid back some of these amounts regains eligibility up to the aggregate limits as before. Graduate students have a lifetime aggregate loan limit of $138,500.

Debt statistics
Direct loans ($1.15 trillion, 34.2 million borrowers)
FFEL loans ($281.8 billion, 13.5 million borrowers). The program ended in 2010.
Perkins loans ($7.1 billion, 2.3 million borrowers). The program ended in 2018.
Total ($1.4392 trillion, 42.9 million borrowers)

Loans to parents
PLUS loans are federal education loans made to parents. These have much higher loan limits, usually enough to cover costs that exceed student financial aid. Payments start immediately after education ends, although prepayment is allowed. Credit history is considered; thus, approval is not automatic.
Interest accrues during the time the student is in school. PLUS interest rates as of 2017 were 7%.The parents are personally responsible for repayment. The parents sign the master promissory note and are accountable. Parents are advised to consider their monthly payments. Loan documents reflect the repayment schedule for a single year. Since most students borrow again each year, the ultimate payments are much higher. PLUS loans consider credit history, making it more difficult for low-income parents to qualify.
Graduate students are eligible to receive PLUS loans in their own names. Graduate PLUS loans have the same interest rates and terms as those to parents.
Federal Direct Student Loans, also known as Direct Loans or FDLP loans, originate with the United States Treasury. FDLP loans are distributed by the DOE, then to the college or university and then to the student.

Debt levels
Loan limits are below the cost of most four-year private institutions and most public universities. Students add private student loans to make up the difference.The maximum amount that any student can borrow is adjusted as federal policies change.

Defaults
Out of 100 students who ever attended a for-profit institution, 23 defaulted in the 1996 cohort compared to 43 in the 2004 cohort (compared to an increase from 8 to 11 among borrowers who never attended a for-profit).As of 2018 black BA graduates defaulted at five times the rate of white BA graduates (21 versus 4 percent), and were more likely to default than white dropouts.

Private loans
Private loans are offered by banks or finance companies. They are not guaranteed by a government agency. Private loans cost more, offer less favorable terms, and are generally used only when students have exhausted the federal borrowing limit. They are not eligible for Income-Based Repayment plans, and frequently have less flexible payment terms, higher fees, and more penalties, than federal student loans. Private loans may be difficult to discharge through bankruptcy.Private loans are made to students or parents. They have higher limits and no payments until after education, although interest starts to accrue immediately and the deferred interest is added to the principal. Interest rates are higher on federal loans, which are set by the United States Congress.The advantage of private student loans is that they do not include loan or total debt limits. They typically offer a no-payment grace period of six months (occasionally 12 months).
Most experts recommend private loans only as a last resort, because of the less favorable terms.

Loan types
Private student loans generally come in two types: school-channel and direct-to-consumer.
School-channel loans offer borrowers lower interest rates, but generally take longer to process. These loans are "certified" by the school, which means the school signs off on the borrowing amount, and the funds are disbursed directly to the school. The "certification" means only that the school confirms the loan funds will be used for educational expenses only and agrees to hold them and disburse them as needed. Certification does not mean that the school approves of, recommends, or has even examined the loan terms.
Direct-to-consumer private loans do not involve the school. The student supplies enrollment verification to the lender, and the loan proceeds are disbursed directly to the student. While direct-to-consumer loans generally carry higher interest rates than school-channel loans, they allow families access to funds more quickly — in some cases, in a matter of days. This convenience comes at the risk of student over-borrowing and/or use of funds for inappropriate purposes.Loan providers range from large education finance companies to speciality companies that focus exclusively on this niche.

Interest rates
Private student loans usually have substantially higher interest rates, and the rates fluctuate depending on the financial markets. Some private loans require substantial up-front origination fees ("points") along with lower interest rates. Interest rates also vary depending on the applicant's credit history.
Most private loan programs are tied to financial indexes such as the Wall Street Journal Prime rate or the BBA LIBOR rate, plus an overhead charge. Students and families with excellent credit generally receive lower rates and smaller loan origination fees than those with poorer credit histories. Interest payments are tax deductible.
Lenders rarely give complete details of loan terms until after an application is submitted. Many lenders advertise only the lowest interest rate they charge (for good credit borrowers). Borrowers with damaged credit can expect interest rates that are as much as 6% higher, loan fees that are as much as 9% higher, and loan limits that are two-thirds lower than those advertised figures.

Loan fees
Private loans often carry an origination fee, which can be substantial. Origination fees are a one-time charge based on the amount of the loan. They can be paid from the loan proceeds or from personal funds independent of the loan amount, often at the borrower's preference. Some lenders offer low-interest, 0-fee loans. The origination fee gets paid once, while interest is paid throughout the loan. The loan amount accumulates to about 15 billion borrowed from private loans.All lenders are legally required to provide a statement of the annual percentage rate (APR) prior to closure. Unlike the "base" rate, this rate includes any fees charged and can be thought of as the "effective" interest rate including interest, fees, etc. When comparing loans, comparing APR rather than "rate" ensures a valid comparison for loans that have the same repayment term. However, if the repayment terms are different, APR becomes a less-perfect comparison tool. In those circumstances comparing total financing costs may be more appropriate.

Loan terms
In contrast with federal loans, whose terms are standardized, private loan terms vary from loan to loan. However, it is not easy to compare them, as some conditions may not be revealed until signing. A common suggestion is to consider all terms, not just respond to advertised interest rates. Applying to multiple lenders (to create a comparison) can damage the borrower's credit score. Examples of other terms  that vary by lender are deferments (amount of time after leaving school before payments start) and forbearances (a period when payments are temporarily stopped due to financial or other hardship).

Cosigners
Private student loan programs generally issue loans based on the credit history of the applicant and any applicable cosigner, co-endorser or coborrower. Students may find that their families have too much income or too many assets to qualify for federal aid, but lack sufficient assets and income to pay for school without assistance. Most students need a cosigner in order to qualify for a private loan.Many international students can obtain private loans (they are usually ineligible for federal loans) with a cosigner who is a citizen or permanent resident. However, some graduate programs (notably top MBA programs) partner with private loan providers. In those cases, no cosigner is needed for international students.

Loan servicers
The U.S. Department of Education contracts with companies to manage, or service, the loans it owns. These companies are the primary point of contact for borrowers after they graduate and enter repayment.
As of July 2023, the four companies which service the majority of student loans are Aidvantage, EdFinancial Services, MOHELA (Higher Education Loan Authority of the State of Missouri) and Nelnet. ECSI (Educational Computer Systems, Inc.) is the exclusive servicer for the remaining Perkins Loans. Borrowers who have defaulted on loans are assigned to the Department of Education’s Default Resolution Group for servicing.

Student loan asset-backed securities (SLABS)
FFELP and private loans are bundled, securitized, rated, then sold to institutional investors as student loan asset-backed securities (SLABS). Navient and Nelnet are two major private lenders. Wells Fargo Bank, JP MorganChase, Goldman Sachs and other large banks package and sell SLABS in bundles. Moody's, Fitch Ratings, and Standard and Poor's rate SLAB quality.The Asset-Backed Security (ABS) industry received financial relief in 2008 and in 2020 through the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) program, which was created to preserve the flow of credit to consumers and businesses, including student loans. In 2020, critics argued that the SLAB market was poorly regulated and could be headed toward a significant downturn, despite perceptions that it was low risk.

Repayment and default
Metrics
The industry metrics are repayment rate and default rate, such as the one-, three-, five-, and seven-year default rates. DOE's College Scorecard includes the following repayment statuses:

Making Progress
Forbearance
Deferment
Not Making Progress
Delinquent
Defaulted
Paid In Full
Discharged

Repayment rate
The three-year repayment rate for each school that receives Title IV funding is available at DOE's College Scorecard. This number may be a poor indicator of the overall default rate: some schools place loans into forebearance, deferring loans beyond the three-year window to present a low default rate.

Default rate
The default rate for borrowers who did not complete their degree is three times as high as the rate for those who did.: 1

Standard repayment
Federal loans are initially designated as standard repayment. Standard repayment borrowers have 10 years to repay. The loan servicer calculates the monthly payment amount that will pay off the original loan amount plus all accrued interest after 120 equal payments.
Payments cover interest and part of the principal. Some loan terms may be shorter than 10 years. The minimum monthly payment is  $50.

Income-related repayment
Income-based repayment
If loan debt is high but income is modest or zero, borrowers may qualify for an income-driven repayment (IDR) plan. Most major types of federal student loans—except for PLUS loans for parents—are eligible. IDRs allow borrowers to cap their monthly payments at 10%, 15%, or 20% of disposable income for up to 20 or 25 years, after which the remaining balance is forgiven.Four IDRs are available:

Income-Based Repayment (IBR)
Pay As You Earn (PAYE)
Revised Pay As You Earn (REPAYE)
Income-Contingent Repayment (ICR)

Income share agreements
An income share agreement is an alternative to a traditional loan. The borrower agrees to pay a percentage of their salary to the educational institution after graduation. Purdue University offers income share agreements.

Defenses to repayment
Under some circumstances, debt can be cancelled. For example, students who attended a school when it closed or the student was enrolled based on false claims may be able to escape repayment.

Leaving the country to evade repayment
Debt evasion is the intentional act of trying to avoid attempts by creditors to collect a debt. News accounts report that some individuals are departing the US to escape their debt. Emigration does not discharge the loan or stop interest and penalties from accruing.
International addresses make it more difficult to find people, and collection companies would usually need to hire an international counsel or a third party collector to recoup the debt, cutting into their profits and reducing their incentive to go after a debtor.  'It increases our expenses to go overseas,' says Justin Berg of American Profit Recovery, a debt collection agency in Massachusetts. 'Our revenues are cut by more than half,' he says."
Nations may enter into agreements with the US to facilitate the collection of student loans.After default, co-signers remain liable for repayment.

Bankruptcy
Federal loans and some private loans can be discharged in bankruptcy by demonstrating that the loan does not meet the requirements of section 523(a)(8) of the bankruptcy code or by showing that repayment of the loan would constitute "undue hardship". While credit card debt often can be discharged through bankruptcy proceedings, this option is not generally available for federally subsidize or insured student loans. Unless the loan can be proven not to be an educational benefit, those seeking to discharge their debt must initiate an adversary proceeding, a separate lawsuit within the bankruptcy case where they illustrate the required hardship. Many borrowers cannot afford the costs to retain an attorney or litigation costs associated with an adversary proceeding, such as a bankruptcy case. The undue hardship standard varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but is generally difficult to meet. In most circuit courts discharge depends on meeting the three prongs in the Brunner test: As noted by the district court, there is very little appellate authority on the definition of "undue hardship" in the context of 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(8)(B). Based on legislative history and the decisions of other district and bankruptcy courts, the district court adopted a standard for "undue hardship" requiring a three-part showing: (1) that the debtor cannot maintain, based on current income and expenses, a "minimal" standard of living for herself and her dependents if forced to repay the loans; (2) that additional circumstances exist indicating that this state of affairs is likely to persist for a significant portion of the repayment period of the student loans; and (3) that the debtor has made good faith efforts to repay the loans. For the reasons set forth in the district court's order, we adopt this analysis. The first part of this test has been applied frequently as the minimum necessary to establish "undue hardship." See, e.g., Bryant v. Pennsylvania Higher Educ. Assistance Agency (In re Bryant), 72 B.R. 913, 915 (Bankr.E.D.Pa.1987); North Dakota State Bd. of Higher Educ. v. Frech (In re Frech), 62 B.R. 235 (Bankr.D.Minn.1986); Marion v. Pennsylvania Higher Educ. Assistance Agency (In re Marion), 61 B.R. 815 (Bankr.W.D.Pa.1986). Requiring such a showing comports with common sense as well.
Federal student loans may be eligible for administrative discharge. Those provisions do not apply to private loans, although private loans may be subject to discharge in bankruptcy. One study found that a quarter million student debtors file for bankruptcy each year. Approximately 450 attempted to seek a discharge in 2017 by arguing that their loan was not an "educational benefit" as defined by section 523(a)(8), or they successfully argued for "undue hardship". Of the completed cases, more than 60% were able to discharge their debts or achieve a settlement. The study concluded that the data showed: Creditors are settling unfavorable cases to avoid adverse precedent and litigating good cases to cultivate favorable precedent. Ultimately, this litigation strategy has distorted the law and cultivated the myth of nondischargeability.The study found that debtors who obtain favorable outcomes do not possess unique characteristics differentiating them from those who do not seek discharge and estimates that 64,000 individuals who filed for bankruptcy in 2019 would have met the hardship standard. It concluded about half of all bankrupt debtors could obtain relief, except that they had become convinced that loans were not dischargeable.For disabled debtors the standard is whether "substantial gainful activity" (SGA) is still possible Borrowers determined to be disabled by the Social Security Administration, are eligible if the SSA placed the individual on a five- to seven-year review cycle. Debt discharged due to death or total permanent disability is nontaxable.In three circuit court jurisdictions private student loans are dischargeable in bankruptcy.

Criticisms
School effects
Some critics of financial aid in general claim that it allows schools to raise their fees, to accept unprepared students, and to produce too many graduates in some fields of study.In 1987, then-Secretary of Education William Bennett argued that “... increases in financial aid in recent years have enabled colleges and universities blithely to raise tuition, confident that Federal loan subsidies would help cushion the increase.” This statement came to be known as the “Bennett Hypothesis”.
In July 2015, a Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Report concluded that institutions more exposed to increases in student loan program maximums tended to respond with disproportionate tuition increases. Pell Grant, subsidized, and unsubsidized loans led to increases of about 40, 60, and 15 cents on the dollar, respectively. In the 20 years between 1987 and 2007, tuition costs rose 326%. Public universities increased their fees by 27% over the five years ending in 2012, or 20% adjusted for inflation. Public university students paid an average of almost $8,400 annually for in-state tuition, while out-of-state students paid more than $19,000. For the two decades ending in 2013, college costs rose 1.6% more than inflation each year. By contrast, government funding per student fell 27% between 2007 and 2012.Many students cannot get loans or determine that the cost of going to school is not worth the debt, believing that they would still be unable to make enough income to pay it back.Some universities steered borrowers to preferred lenders that charged higher interest rates. Some of these lenders allegedly paid kick backs to university financial aid staff. After the behavior became public, many universities rebated fees to affected borrowers.

Interest rates
The federal student loan program was criticized for not adjusting interest rates according to factors under students' control, such as the choice of academic major. Critics have contended that flat-rate pricing contributes to inefficiency and misallocation of resources in higher education and lower productivity in the labor market. However, one study found that high debt and default levels do not burden society substantially.

Bankruptcy
In 2009 student loans' non-dischargeability was claimed to provide a credit risk-free loan for the lender, averaging 7 percent a year.

Long-term debt and default
About one-third of borrowers never pay off their loans. Those who default shift their burden to taxpayers.According to Harvard Business School researchers, "when student debt is erased, a huge burden is lifted and people take big steps to improve their lives: They seek higher-paying careers in new states, improve their education, get their other finances in order, and make more substantial contributions to the economy."

Sallie Mae and Nelnet
Sallie Mae and Nelnet are the largest lenders and are frequently defendants in lawsuits. The False Claims Suit was filed on behalf of the federal government by former DOE researcher Dr. Jon Oberg against Sallie Mae, Nelnet, and other lenders. Oberg argued that the lenders overcharged the United States Government and defrauded taxpayers of over $22 million. In August 2010, Nelnet settled and paid $55 million. Ultimately seven lenders returned taxpayer funds as a result of his lawsuits.

School quality
In April 2019, Brookings Institution fellow Adam Looney, a long-time analyst of student loans, claimed that:"It is an outrage that the federal government offers loans to students at low-quality institutions even when we know those schools don’t boost their earnings and that those borrowers won’t be able to repay their loans. It is an outrage that we make parent PLUS loans to the poorest families when we know they almost surely will default and have their wages and social security benefits garnished and their tax refunds confiscated, as $2.8 billion was in 2017. It is an outrage that we saddled several million students with loans to enroll in untested online programs that seem to have offered no labor market value. It is an outrage that our lending programs encourage schools like USC to charge $107,484 (and students to blithely enroll) for a master’s degree in social work (220 percent more than the equivalent course at UCLA) in a field where the median wage is $47,980. It’s no wonder many borrowers feel their student loans led to economic catastrophe."

Potential consequences of student loan debt
While college grads earn about 70% more than people with only a high school degree, student loan debt has been associated with several social, economic, and psychological consequences, including:

having to choose less satisfying work that pays more
lower credit ratings from missed payments that may disqualify borrowers from work opportunities given poor payment history
reduced wealth accumulation
reduced housing access
delayed marriage
delayed childbirth
decreased retirement security
increased anxiety

Reform proposals
Organizations that advocate for student loan reform include the Debt Collective and Student Loan Justice.Some pundits proposed that colleges share liability on defaulted student loans.Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.) introduced legislation in 2017 to "make public colleges and universities tuition-free for working families and to significantly reduce student debt." The policy would eliminate undergraduate tuition and fees at public colleges and universities, lower interest rates, and allow those with existing debt to refinance. Sanders offered a new proposal in 2019 that would cancel $1.6 trillion of student loan, undergraduate and graduate debt for around 45 million Americans.Senator Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) reintroduced the Debt Free College Act in 2019.In 2020, a majority of economists surveyed by the Initiative on Global Markets felt that forgiving all student loans would be more beneficial to higher income earners than lower income earners.During the 2020 presidential election, then-candidate Joe Biden said he planned to allow $10,000 in debt forgiveness to all student debtors. On August 24, 2022, Biden announced that he would forgive an amount of $10,000 for an estimated 43 million borrowers, and an additional $10,000 for Pell Grant recipients, with this relief limited to singles earning under $125,000 and married couples earning under $250,000, including refunding payments during the forbearance period by any borrower who requests it. This would reduce debt for an estimated 43 million borrowers and eliminate student loan debt for an estimated 20 million.  The Congressional Budget Office estimated that it would cost the government about $400 billion. The administration also proposed a new income-driven repayment plan. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled June 30, 2023 that Biden's plan required action by Congress and that the HEROES Act did not permit the administration to act on its own.Some borrowers still have loans issued under the Federal Family Education Loan Program which closed in 2010. The Biden forgiveness plan originally allowed these borrowers to receive forgiveness by consolidating into Direct Loans, but due to potential lawsuits stopped allowing this on September 29, 2022, potentially excluding 800,000 FFEL borrowers.

See also
Student financial aid in the United States
College tuition in the United States
EdFund
Free education
Higher Education Price Index
Tertiary education
Private university
Student debt
Student loan
Tuition payments
Tuition freeze
Passage 12:
Robert Khayat
Robert Conrad Khayat (born April 18, 1938) was the 15th Chancellor of the University of Mississippi. He also played American football as a placekicker, guard, and center for Ole Miss and in the National Football League (NFL) for the Washington Redskins during the 1960, 1962 and 1963 seasons. He was appointed Chancellor in 1995.

Early years
Khayat was born in Moss Point, Mississippi, to Lebanese parents. He attended Moss Point High School and the University of Mississippi. He received both bachelor of arts and Juris Doctor degrees from the University of Mississippi. He also played football for the Ole Miss Rebels football team from 1957 to 1959. He also received an LL.M. degree from Yale University.

Professional football career
Khayat was selected by the Cleveland Browns in the 1960 NFL Draft. He was then traded to the Washington Redskins in April 1960. He played for the Redskins during the 1960, 1962, and 1963 seasons. Following the 1960 season, he was named to the Pro Bowl squad. He appeared in a total of 40 NFL games and kicked 38 field goals and 90 extra points.His brother Eddie Khayat also played and coached in the NFL.

Later years
Khayat later became a lawyer and taught law at the University of Mississippi School of Law.He was appointed chancellor in 1995. In one of his first acts as chancellor, Khayat arranged for a $5.4 million gift from Jim and Sally Barksdale to establish an honors college at the university. In 1996, with enrollment declining, Khayat retained the public relations firm, Burson-Marsteller, to conduct a survey of public perception — including university symbols. When The New York Times reported on the review, which included the Confederate Flag and other Old South symbols, a media frenzy ensued.
On January 6, 2009, Khayat announced his retirement effective June 30, 2009. He was succeeded by Daniel Jones on June 15, 2009.
Khayat's memoir, The Education of a Lifetime, was published on September 10, 2013.