Passage 1:
Poptropica
Poptropica is an online role-playing game, developed in 2007 by Pearson Education's Family Education Network, and targeted towards children aged 6 to 15. Poptropica was primarily the creation of Jeff Kinney, the author of the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series. As of 2015, he remains at the company as the Creative Director. The game primarily focuses on problem-solving through game quest scenarios, called "islands". Islands all center on a problem that the player must resolve by going through multiple obstacles, collecting and using items, talking to various characters, and completing goals. All islands, upon completion, award "credits," which are non-negotiable currency that may be used to buy costumes and special effects in the Poptropica store.
In 2011, Poptropica was listed on Time magazine's list of "50 Websites that Make the Web Great", where it was described as "an inventive megasite for kids with a wholesome and slightly educational bent". By 2012, the game had grown to have over 75 million registered users, with 35 million in the 15-25 age group. Versions of the game have been released on Nintendo DS and 3DS, iOS, and Android mobile devices. In May 2015, it was announced that Family Education Network was sold by Pearson to the interactive-education venture capitalist Sandbox Networks, and that Poptropica had "over 3.2 million monthly unique users in 200 countries and territories".In 2015, Poptropica was sold to educational-technology investment group, Sandbox Partners.In 2020, because of the discontinuation of Adobe Flash, Poptropica began porting their old islands that were built on Adobe Flash over to an HTML5 format. As a result of Poptropica's utilization of varying Flash engines, a number of islands were unable to be ported immediately, and were effectively removed from the game. Fan archivists later made 35 islands available once again via the Basilisk browser within the Flashpoint program.In April 2022, Poptropica announced that some of the old islands would return as part of a bundle on Steam. Though delayed by a day, the game was eventually released on May 26, 2022, and includes seventeen islands and Poptropica Realms.

Gameplay
When it first launched in 2007, Poptropica only had one island, titled Early Poptropica Island. By 2017, it had 58 islands to be explored, all with a different theme: examples include Back Lot Island, where the player helps produce a movie, and Super Power Island, where their goal is to defeat six super villains. Each island had its own quest, for which a player could receive an island medallion as well as 150 credits to spend in the in-game Poptropica Store. Starting July 6, 2011, Poptropica allowed players to replay islands without creating a new account, while still keeping track of all the Medallions the player had earned.

Advertisements
In addition to the available island quests, advertisers contract for temporary mini-games that appear on the site, sometimes targeted to players of a certain age group or gender. Regular advertisers have included Disney, Kellogg's Froot Loops, Lego toys, and various animated movies and DVD releases. Advertisement mini-games normally appear only during a two-week period. If the player completes an advertisement mini-game, they receive a temporary prize, usually related to the media being advertised.
A few Poptropica islands are themed after certain book series: these include Big Nate, Timmy Failure, Diary of a Wimpy Kid, and Magic Tree House. These islands are permanent, and can be played at any time. In 2015, a total of seven of these islands became members-only.

Mini-games
Poptropica features different mini-games that users can play with other people. These include Switch, Sudoku, Hoops, Sky Dive, Paint War, Star Link, Balloons, Soupwords and Pathwise. The game keeps track of how many times the player wins or loses a certain mini-game.

Spin-offs
Poptropica Adventures
In 2012, in partnership with Ubisoft, Poptropica released a video game for the Nintendo DS, titled Poptropica Adventures.

Poptropica: Forgotten Islands
On September 5, 2013, Poptropica launched Poptropica: Forgotten Islands, an iOS game, which allows players to meet new characters and discover story elements about Poptropica by finding artifacts littered throughout the game. It was also released on the Nintendo 3DS system through Ubisoft in 2014. It has been replaced on iOS and Android with a mobile version of the desktop Poptropica game.

Poptropica Worlds
On January 11, 2017, Poptropica announced via their blog that they were introducing another game called Poptropica Worlds, developed in Unity. It was released in spring 2017. Poptropica Worlds has new features, such as redesigned characters, customizable homes, and new islands. Returning players are able to port over their avatar's look and name to Poptropica Worlds. Poptropica Worlds can be played on both the web and mobile. If membership was bought for Poptropica, it carries over to Poptropica Worlds, and vice versa.
Passage 2:
Eldridge Park, New Jersey
Eldridge Park is an unincorporated community located within Lawrence Township in Mercer County, New Jersey, United States. The neighborhood is named for Stephen Eldridge, a farm owner in the township in the early 20th century. The neighborhood itself was established in 1906 as a settlement along the Trenton & Princeton Traction Company trolleyline and Lawrence Road (U.S. Route 206) for European immigrants to purchase small houses in the suburbs of Trenton. The growing population led to the construction of the Eldridge Park Elementary School and St. Ann's, the township's first Roman Catholic church. As it was in the past, the area is mostly made up of small houses with businesses clustered around US 206.
Passage 3:
5th arrondissement of Paris
The 5th arrondissement of Paris (Ve arrondissement) is one of the 20 arrondissements of the capital city of France. In spoken French, this arrondissement is referred to as le cinquième.
The arrondissement, also known as Panthéon, is situated on the Rive Gauche of the River Seine. It is one of the capital's central arrondissements. The arrondissement is notable for being the location of the Latin Quarter, a district dominated by universities, colleges, and prestigious high schools since the 12th century when the University of Paris was created. It is also home to the National Museum of Natural History and Jardin des plantes in its eastern part.
The 5th arrondissement is also one of the oldest districts of the city, dating back to ancient times. Traces of the area's past survive in such sites as the Arènes de Lutèce, a Roman amphitheatre, as well as the Thermes de Cluny, a Roman thermae.

Geography
The 5th arrondissement covers some 2.541 km² (0.981 sq. miles, or 628 acres) in central Paris.

Demography
The population of the arrondissement peaked in 1911 when the population density reached almost 50,000 inhabitants per km². In 2009, the population was 61,531, while 48,909 worked in the arrondissement.

Historical population
Immigration
History
The Ve arrondissement is the oldest arrondissement in Paris, and was first built by the Romans.
The construction of the Roman town Lutetia dates back from the 1st century BC, which was built after the conquest of the Gaulish site, situated on the île de la Cité by the Romans.
Saint-Hilaire is a ruined 12th-century church in Paris, active until the French Revolution.

Government and infrastructure
The Ministry of Higher Education and Research has its head office in the arrondissement.Previously the Bureau d'Enquêtes sur les Événements de Mer (BEAmer) had its head office in the 5th arrondissement.

Economy
Sony Computer Science Laboratories (ソニーコンピュータサイエンス研究所) Paris is in the arrondissement.

Maps
Cityscape
Colleges and universities
As part of the Latin Quarter, the 5th arrondissement is known for its high concentration of educational and research establishments.

Collège de France
Collège international de philosophie
École Polytechnique (historical campus; the school has now been relocated)
PSL University
École Normale Supérieure
ENSCP - Chimie Paris
ESPCI Paris
Sorbonne University - Faculté des sciences
Jussieu Campus
Université Paris Cité
Faculté de médecine de Paris Centre
Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris
Sorbonne
Sorbonne University - Faculté des Lettres
University of Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne
University of Paris III Sorbonne Nouvelle
Rectorate of Paris
Famous lycées with preparatory classes to the Grandes écoles
Lycée Louis-le-Grand
Lycée Henri IV

Main streets and squares
Passage 4:
Brooklyn College
Brooklyn College is a public university in Brooklyn in New York City. It is part of the City University of New York system and enrolls over 17,000 undergraduate and over 2,800 graduate students on a 35-acre campus as of 2019.
Being New York City's first public coeducational liberal arts college, it was formed in 1930 by the merger of the Brooklyn branches of Hunter College, then a women's college, and of the City College of New York, then a men's college, both established in 1926. Initially tuition-free, Brooklyn College suffered from the New York City government's near-bankruptcy in 1975, when the college closed its campus in downtown Brooklyn. During 1976, with its Midwood campus intact and now its only campus, Brooklyn College charged tuition for the first time.
Prominent alumni of Brooklyn College include US senators, federal judges, US financial chairmen, Olympians, CEOs, and recipients of Academy Awards, Emmy Awards, Pulitzer Prizes, and Nobel Prizes.

College history
Early decades
Brooklyn College was founded in 1930. That year, as directed by the New York City Board of Higher Education on April 22, the college authorized the combination of the Downtown Brooklyn branches of Hunter College, at that time a women's college, and the City College of New York, then a men's college, both established in 1926.  Meanwhile, Brooklyn College became the first public coeducational liberal arts college in New York City. The school opened in September 1930, holding separate classes for men and women until their junior years. Admission would require passing a stringent entrance exam.

In 1932, architect Randolph Evans drafted a plan for the campus on a substantial plot that his employer owned in Brooklyn's Midwood section. Evans sketched a Georgian campus facing a central quadrangle, and anchored by a library building with a tower.  Evans presented the sketches to the college's then president, Dr. William A. Boylan, who approved the layout.
The land was bought for $1.6 million ($34,300,000 today), and construction allotment was $5 million ($107,000,000 today). Construction began in 1935. At the groundbreaking ceremony was Mayor Fiorello La Guardia and Brooklyn Borough President Raymond Ingersoll. In 1936, United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt visited and laid the gymnasium's cornerstone. The new campus opened for the fall 1937 semester. In the 1940s, Boylan, Ingersoll, Roosevelt and La Guardia each became namesake of a campus building.During the tenure of its second president, Harry Gideonse, from 1939 to 1966, Brooklyn College ranked high nationally in number of alumni with doctorate degrees. As academics fled Nazi Germany, nearly a third of refugee historians who were female would at some point work at Brooklyn College. In 1944, sociologist Marion Vera Cuthbert became the first permanent black faculty member appointed at any of the New York municipal colleges. And in 1956, with John Hope Franklin joining, Brooklyn College became the first "white" college to hire on a permanent basis a historian who was black.In 1959, still tuition-free, about 8,000 undergraduates were enrolled. In 1962, the college joined six other colleges to form the City University of New York, creating the world's second-largest university. In 1983, Brooklyn College named its library the Harry D. Gideonse Library.Nevertheless, Gideonse remains a controversial figure in the college's history; as one account noted, he is "either lauded as a hero and great educator in hagiographic accounts . . . or decried by faculty and alumni as an autocrat who stifled academic freedom and students' rights."In addition to his curricular and student life reforms, Gideonse was known for his decades-long campaign to ferret out Communists among the college community and his testimony before congressional and state investigating committees during the Second Red Scare.On the other hand, perhaps retaining the memory of the time when, as a University of Chicago professor, he was unjustly accused of being a Communist and advocating "free love," Gideonse also attacked those who, without evidence, charged faculty, staff and students with being subversives and defended faculty free speech rights against outside critics.The college's third president, Francis Kilcoyne, served from 1966 to 1967. The fourth president, Harold Syrett, resigned due to ill health in February 1969, when George A. Peck was named acting president. John Kneller, Brooklyn College's fifth president, served from 1969 until 1979. These presidents served during what were perhaps the most tumultuous years for Brooklyn College.
During the Vietnam War, as they did on other U.S. campuses, student protests rocked Brooklyn College. President Gideonse, in a 1965 television interview, blamed demonstrations on Communists who were "duping the innocents" into demanding more freedom on campus, leading the New York Civil Liberties Union to criticize Gideonse for "his efforts to smear student groups at the college with the Communist label."Also in 1965, student protests forced the Gideonse administration to rescind new, stricter dress rules that forbade male students from wearing dungarees or sweatshirts on campus at any time and mandated that female students wear skirts and blouses even in extremely cold weather. After Gideonse's retirement in June 1966, a newly-appointed dean of administration, Dante Negro, said he was not bothered by the students' more casual dress "that makes it hard to distinguish between the sexes," calling it "a passing fad."On October 21, 1967, a front-page story in The New York Times reported that the college was virtually closed down by a strike of thousands of students angered by police action against antiwar demonstrators protesting U.S. Navy recruiters earlier in the week. Five days later, another front-page Times story reported that students had agreed to return to classes after an agreement was reached with college administrators after negotiations. A few days after that, President Kilcoyne walked out when New York Mayor John V. Lindsay appeared at the college, citing Lindsay's insult in calling the school "Berkeley East."Around the same time, the college's students were involved in campus protests involving racial issues. In May 1968, Brooklyn College news again made the front page of The New York Times when police broke up a 16-hour sit-in at the registrar's office to demand that more Black and Puerto Rican students be admitted to the school. At trial, a Black Brooklyn judge reacted angrily when one student said they had been reacting to racism and sentenced him and 32 other white students to five days in jail for the sit-in. In May 1969, 19 or 20 Brooklyn College students faced criminal charges in connection with campus disorders during the spring semester, including raids  in which students allegedly ransacked files and smoke-bombed the library.In late April 1970, students demanding more open admissions and racial diversity staged a sit-in at President Kneller's office, holding him and five deans there for several hours. The next week, in early May 1970, students seized the president's office and other buildings during a student strike upon the Kent State shootings and the Cambodian Campaign. President Kneller terminated classes, but kept campus buildings open for students and faculty, obtaining a court order against students occupying buildings.In October 1974, 200 Hispanic students took over the registrar's office to protest President Kneller's appointment of a chair of the Puerto Rican Studies Department different from that of the person selected by a faculty search committee. Defying a judge's temporary court order to leave the building, the protesters were supported at a rallies outside Boylan Hall by many student groups and the alumni association, but Kneller refused to rescind his controversial appointment. Protests flared up again in the spring 1975 semester with another takeover of the registrar's office. By January 1976, the college's faculty union voted "no confidence" in Kneller, charging that he "consistently ignored faculty rights" and failed to provide leadership.Brooklyn College, along with the rest of CUNY, shut down for two weeks in May and June 1976 as the university was unable to pay its bills. Amid New York City's financial crisis, near bankruptcy, Brooklyn College's campus in downtown Brooklyn closed, leaving the Midwood campus as the Brooklyn College's only campus. In the fall of 1976, with some 30,000 undergraduates enrolled, the college charged tuition for the first time.In January 1978, the college's Faculty Council approved a vote of "no confidence" in President Kneller on Wednesday and recommended to the Board of Higher Education that he be replaced.Brooklyn College's sixth president was Robert Hess, who served from 1979 to 1992. Hess initiated major changes in the college curriculum, mandating a standard core for all students. Implementation of the new curriculum was aided by a large grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. By 1984, in a national report's otherwise gloomy assessment of humanities education, Brooklyn College was singled out as "a bright spot" among American universities for stressing the study of the humanities.In a 1988 survey of thousands of American college deans, Brooklyn College ranked 5th in providing students with a strong general education, and was the only public institution among the top five. As of 1989, Brooklyn College ranked 11th in the US, and ahead of six of the eight Ivy League universities, by number of graduates who had acquired doctoral degrees. At Brooklyn College being called “the poor man’s Harvard,” President Hess quipped, “I like to think of Harvard as the rich man’s Brooklyn College.”Vernon Lattin was the seventh president of Brooklyn College, from 1992 to 2000.

Modern history
Brooklyn College's campus leafy East Quad looks much like it did when it was originally constructed. The campus also serves as home to BCBC/ Brooklyn College Presents complex and its four theaters, including the George Gershwin.
The demolition of Gershwin Hall, replaced by The Leonard & Claire Tow Center for the Performing Arts for which ground was broken in 2011, is the most recent construction on an evolving campus. Alumni Leonard and Claire Tow gifted $10 million to the college. Other changes to the original design include the demolition of Plaza Building, due to its inefficient use of space, poor ventilation, and significant maintenance costs. To replace the Plaza Building, the college constructed West Quad Center, designed by the notable Uruguayan architect Rafael Viñoly. The new building contains classroom space, offices, gymnasiums and a swimming pool. It houses the offices of Registration, Admissions, Financial Aid, and the Department of Physical Education and Exercise Science. The grounds contain a quadrangle with grassy areas and trees. New façades are being constructed on Roosevelt and James halls where they once connected with Plaza Building. The 2009–10 CUNYAC championship men's basketball team now plays its home games in the West Quad Center.
This followed a major $70 million library renovation completed in 2003 that saw the library moved to a temporary home while construction took place. The Brooklyn College library is now located in its original location in a completely renovated and expanded LaGuardia Hall.
From 2000 to 2009 when he retired, Christoph M. Kimmich was the eighth President of Brooklyn College. In the 2003 edition of The Best 345 Colleges, the Princeton Review named Brooklyn College as the most beautiful campus in the country, and ranked it fifth in the nation for “Best Academic Bang for the Buck.”Karen L. Gould was named the ninth president of Brooklyn College in 2009. Michelle Anderson became the 10th President of Brooklyn College in 2016. In 2016, Brooklyn College announced a new home for the Koppelman School of Business, with the planned construction of a new building, Koppelman Hall, on property adjacent to the 26-acre campus bought in 2011. This increased the campus size to 35 acres.

Schools
Brooklyn College has five schools:

Murray Koppelman School of Business
School of Education
School of Humanities and Social Sciences
School of Natural and Behavioral Sciences
School of Visual, Media, and Performing Arts

Academics
Undergraduate curriculum
Beginning in 1981, the college instituted a group of classes that all undergraduates were required to take, called "Core Studies". The classes were: Classical Origins of Western Culture, Introduction to Art, Introduction to Music, People, Power, and Politics, The Shaping of the Modern World, Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning and Computer Programming, Landmarks of Literature, Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Geology, Studies in African, Asian, and Latin American Cultures, and Knowledge, Existence and Values.In 2006, the Core Curriculum was revamped, and the 13 required courses were replaced with 15 courses in 3 disciplines, from which students were required to take 11. In the fall of 2013, Brooklyn College embarked on CUNY's new general education alternative, the Pathways curriculum, consisting of three components: Required Core (four courses), Flexible Core (six courses) and College Option (four courses)—totaling 42 credits.  Brooklyn College offers over a hundred majors varying from the visual arts to Women's Studies.

Division of Graduate Studies
The Division of Graduate Studies at Brooklyn College was established in 1935 and offers more than seventy programs in the arts, education, humanities, sciences, and computer and social sciences. Among those programs is the Graduate theatre program, which is the top ranked in the CUNY system and 14th in the United States; faculty include Tony Award nominee Justin Townsend.

B.A.–M.D. program
The Brooklyn College B.A.–M.D. program is an eight-year program affiliated with SUNY Downstate Medical Center. The program follows a rigorous selection process, with a maximum of 15 students selected every year. Each student selected to the program receives a Brooklyn College Presidential Scholarship. B.A.–M.D. students must engage in community service for three years, beginning in their lower sophomore semester. During one summer of their undergraduate studies, students are required to volunteer in a clinical setting where they are involved in direct patient care. B.A.–M.D. students are encouraged to major in the humanities or social sciences.

The Scholars Program
The Scholars Program is home to a small number of students with strong writing ability and academic record. Being the oldest honors program in the CUNY system, The Scholars Program has served as a model for many other honors programs nationwide. It was established in 1960 and is an interdisciplinary liberal arts program. The program offers honors-level Core courses and seminars as well as small, personalized classes. Upon graduation from Brooklyn College, many Scholars continue their education in competitive programs at top-ranked universities like Princeton, Yale, and New York University. The program accepts incoming freshmen in addition to matriculated sophomores and transfer students (up to 48 credits). Once admitted, they receive a Brooklyn College Foundation Presidential Scholarship of up to $4,000 for every year of their undergraduate study at Brooklyn College and a laptop computer.

Coordinated Engineering Program
The Coordinated Honors Engineering Program offers a course of study equivalent to the first two years at any engineering school. Students who maintain the required academic level are guaranteed transfer to one of the three coordinating schools—NYU-Poly, City College of New York School of Engineering, and the College of Staten Island Engineering Science Program—to complete their bachelor's degree in engineering. Coordinating Engineering students have also transferred to Stony Brook University, University of Wisconsin, University of Michigan, Cooper Union, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Students admitted as incoming First-Year receive a Brooklyn College Foundation Presidential Scholarship that provides full tuition for their two years of full-time undergraduate study in the Coordinated Engineering Program. As members of the Honors Academy, Engineering Honors students take advantage of individual advising, faculty consultation, and early registration. In the Commons they find study facilities, computer access, academic, scholarship, internship, and career opportunities, and, above all, intellectual stimulation among other talented students like themselves. Students applying to the Engineering Honors Program will also be considered for the Scholars Program.

Feirstein Graduate School of Cinema
Barry R. Feirstein Graduate School of Cinema is the first public graduate film school in New York City. It is the only film school in America to have its own classroom on a film lot with the collaboration of Steiner Studios, the largest soundstage on the East Coast. The program offers a two-year M.A. in Cinema Studies, a two-year M.F.A. in Cinema Arts in the discipline of Producing, and a three-year M.F.A in Cinema Arts with five disciplines of Cinematography,
Directing, Post-production, Screenwriting, and Digital Arts and Visual Effects. The school opened in the fall of 2015. The first graduating class was in Spring 2018.

Rankings
U.S. News & World Report ranked the school tied for 62nd overall as a Regional college (North region), 6th in "Top Performers on Social Mobility", 15th in "Top Public Schools", and tied for 33rd in "Best Colleges for Veterans" for 2021.

Athletics
Brooklyn College athletic teams are nicknamed as the Bulldogs. The college is a member at the Division III level of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA); primarily competing in the City University of New York Athletic Conference (CUNYAC) since the 1996–97 academic year (which they also competed in a previous stint from 1978–79 to 1979–80). The Bulldogs previously competed in the East Coast Conference at the Division I level during the 1991–92 academic year.
Men's sports include basketball, cheerleading, cross country, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis and volleyball; while women's sports include basketball, cheerleading, cross country, soccer, softball, swimming & diving, tennis and volleyball. The athletics stadium was used for the outdoor scenes in the 1978 adult film Debbie Does Dallas.

Mascot
In 2010, Brooklyn College adopted the Bulldog as its new mascot. The athletic program was originally known as the Kingsmen. In 1994, the mascot was changed to the Bridges. However, after the school built new facilities and underwent other changes the athletic director pushed for a new name to reflect the new program.

Notable people
Notable alumni
Notable alumni of Brooklyn College in government include Senator Bernie Sanders (1959–1960), Senator Barbara Boxer (née Barbara Levy; B.A. 1962), Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm (B.A. 1946), Securities and Exchange Commission Chairmen Manuel F. Cohen (B.S. 1933) and Harvey Pitt (B.A. 1965), and federal judges Rosemary S. Pooler (B.A. 1959), Jack B. Weinstein (B.A. 1943), Sterling Johnson Jr. (B.A. 1963), Edward R. Korman (B.A. 1963), Joel Harvey Slomsky (B.A. 1967), and Jason K. Pulliam (B.A. 1995; M.A. 1997).
Notable alumni in business include Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CEO Barry Salzberg (B.S. 1974), Adobe Inc. CEO Bruce Chizen (B.S. 1978), Warner Bros. and Los Angeles Dodgers CEO Robert A. Daly, New York Mets President Saul Katz (B.A. 1960), Boston Celtics owner Marvin Kratter (1937), David Geffen, New Line Cinema CEO Michael Lynne (B.A. 1961), CBS Records CEO Walter Yetnikoff (B.A. 1953), Vanguard Records co-founder Maynard Solomon (B.A. 1950), and Gannett Chairman Marjorie Magner (B.S. 1969).
Notable alumni in the sciences and academia include Nobel Prize–winning biochemist Stanley Cohen (B.A. 1943), Fields Medal–winning mathematician Paul Cohen (1953), social psychologists Stanley Milgram (B.A. 1954) and Philip Zimbardo (B.A. 1954), Harvard Law School professor and author Alan M. Dershowitz (A.B. 1959), Columbia Law School Dean Barbara Aronstein Black (B.A. 1953), California State University Chancellor Barry Munitz (B.A. 1963), City College of New York President Lisa Staiano-Coico (B.S. 1976), and NASA scientist and College of William & Mary professor Joel S. Levine (B.S. 1964).
Notable alumni in the arts include Academy, Emmy, and Tony Award–winning director, writer, and actor Mel Brooks (born Melvin Kaminsky; 1946), Golden Globe Award–winning actor James Franco (M.F.A. 2009), Emmy Award–winning actor Jimmy Smits (B.A. 1980), Academy Award–winning screenwriter Frank Tarloff (B.A.), Academy Award-nominated filmmakers Paul Mazursky (B.A. 1952) and Oren Moverman (B.A. 1992), Sopranos stars Steve Schirripa (B.A. 1980) and Dominic Chianese (B.A. 1961), director Joel Zwick (1962; M.A. 1968), Grammy Award winner Peter Nero (born Bernard Nierow; B.A. 1956), O. Henry Award–winning author Irwin Shaw (born Irwin Shamforoff; B.A. 1934); and a number of Pulitzer Prize winners: author Frank McCourt (M.A. 1967), playwrights Howard Sackler (B.A. 1950) and Annie Baker (M.F.A. 2009), journalists Sylvan Fox (B.A. 1951), Stanley Penn (1947), and Harold C. Schonberg (B.A. 1937), photographer Max Desfor, and historian Oscar Handlin (B.A. 1934).
Other notable alumni include Olympic fencers Ralph Goldstein and Nikki Franke (B.S. 1972), chess grandmaster and five-time U.S. champion Gata Kamsky (B.A. 1999), Jewish Defense League founder Meir Kahane (B.A. 1954), and civil rights activist Al Sharpton (1975).

Notable faculty
F. Murray Abraham (born 1939), actor of stage and screen; professor of theater, winner of the Academy Award for Best Actor
Vito Acconci, designer, landscape architect, performance and installation artist
Dorothy Inez Adams (1904-1967), anthropologist
Eric Alterman (born 1960), liberal journalist
Lennart Anderson, figurative painter
Hannah Arendt, philosopher and political theorist; author of The Origins of Totalitarianism (1951) and The Human Condition (1958)
Solomon Asch, Polish-American Gestalt psychologist and pioneer in social psychology
John Ashbery (1927–2017), poet, Pulitzer Prize for Poetry winner; tenured faculty member from c. 1972 to 1986
Robert Beauchamp, painter
Maír José Benardete, scholar of Sephardic studies and Professor of Spanish and Sephardic Studies
William Boylan (1869–1940), first President of Brooklyn College
Edwin G. Burrows (1943–2018), historian; Pulitzer Prize for History winner for co-writing Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898 with Mike Wallace
Frances Sergeant Childs, historian; one of the college's founding faculty members
Margaret Clapp, scholar, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography, President of Wellesley College
Michael Cunningham (born 1952), novelist; winner of Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and PEN/Faulkner Award for The Hours
Rudy D'Amico (born 1940), professional National Basketball Association scout, and former Brooklyn College and professional basketball coach who coached Maccabi Tel Aviv to the Euroleague Championship
Lois Dodd (born 1927), painter
Charles Dodge (born 1942), composer, founder of the Center for Computer Music
Alphonsus J. Donlon, President of Georgetown University
Paul Edwards (born Paul Eisenstein), Professor of Philosophy, editor of the Encyclopedia of Philosophy
John Hope Franklin, historian of the US, former Chairman of the History Department, president of Phi Beta Kappa, and recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom
Jack Gelber, playwright and theater director; taught at Brooklyn College 1972–2003
Allen Ginsberg (1926–1997), Beat Generation poet and Pulitzer Prize for Poetry finalist; Distinguished Professor of English from 1986 to 1997, replacing Ashbery (who accepted a MacArthur Fellowship and later moved to Bard College)
Betty Glad, Chair of Political Science at the University of Illinois
Ralph Goldstein (1913–1997), Olympic épée fencer
Joel Glucksman (born 1949), Olympic saber fencer
Maxine Greene (née Meyer), William F. Russell Professor in the Foundations of Education at Teachers College, Columbia University
David Grubbs (born 1967), musician, composer, recording artist
Carey Harrison (born 1944), novelist/dramatist
Amy Hempel (born 1951), short story writer, journalist, and coordinator of the MFA Fiction-Writing Program
Seymour L. Hess, meteorologist and planetary scientist
Shintaro Higashi, 6th degree black belt in judo, 2007 and 2011 USA Judo Senior National Champion
Agnieszka Holland (born 1948), film director, best known for Europa Europa (1992)
Carl Holty, painter
Karen Brooks Hopkins, President of the Brooklyn Academy of Music
John Hospers, first presidential candidate of the US Libertarian Party; professor 1956–66
Paul Jacobs, classical pianist; specialist in modern music
KC Johnson, professor of American history
Mburumba Kerina (1932–2021), Deputy Speaker of the Constituent Assembly of Namibia
Béla Király (1912–2009), professor emeritus, former Hungarian general taught military history and central European history
Alfred McClung Lee, Chairman of the Sociology and Anthropology departments at Wayne University and Brooklyn College
Tania León, Cuban-born composer and conductor, Pulitzer Prize for Music winner
Don Lemon, CNN anchor and journalist
Ben Lerner, poet and writer
Ira N. Levine (1937–2015), author and professor in the Chemistry Department
Abraham Maslow, psychologist in the school of humanistic psychology, best known for his theory of human motivation which led to a therapeutic technique known as self-actualization; taught 1937–1951
Wilson Carey McWilliams, political scientist, author of The Idea of Fraternity in America (1973, University of California Press), for which he won the National Historical Society prize in 1974
Denise O'Connor (born 1935), Olympic foil fencer
Carol J. Oja, musicologist and scholar of American Studies, William Powell Mason Professor at Harvard University
Ursula Oppens, pianist, co-founded the contemporary music ensemble Speculum Musicae, Conservatory of Music
Philip Pearlstein, Distinguished Professor Emeritus, influential painter known for his Modernist Realism nudes
Itzhak Perlman, violinist, Conservatory of Music
Roman Popadiuk, US Ambassador to Ukraine
Tubby Raskin (1902–1981), basketball player and coach
Inez Smith Reid, Senior Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals
Mark Rothko (born Markus Yakovlevich Rothkowitz; 1903–1970), influential abstract expressionist painter
Susan Fromberg Schaeffer, novelist and Broeklundian Professor of English
Albert Schatz, microbiologist, co-discoverer of streptomycin
William Schimmel, composer
Mitchell Silver, Commissioner of the New York City Parks Department
Mabel Murphy Smythe-Haith, Ambassador for the United States to Cameroon and later Equatorial Guinea
Stephen Solarz, US Congressional Representative from New York
Eileen Southern, musicologist, researcher, author, and teacher
Mark Strand, United States Poet Laureate, Pulitzer Prize for Poetry–winning poet, essayist, and translator
Glenn Thrush, Politico senior writer, author
Hans L. Trefousse, Distinguished Emeritus Professor of History; taught 1946–1998, historian and author
Ad Reinhardt, Elizabeth Murray, Vito Acconci, William T. Williams, Archie Rand, Jennifer McCoy, Patricia Cronin, artists (1950s to present)
Mervin F. Verbit, chair of the Sociology Department at Touro College
Carleton Washburne, Director of Teacher Education, known for his progressive education works
Mac Wellman, Obie Award–winning playwright, author, and poet
Ruth Westheimer (better known as Dr. Ruth; born Karola Ruth Siegel, 1928), German-American sex therapist, author, radio, television talk show host, former Haganah sniper, and Holocaust survivor
C. K. Williams, poet, won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry
Ethyle R. Wolfe, professor from 1947 to 1989, created the Ethyle R. Wolfe Humanities Institute at the college.
Theresa Wolfson, Professor of Labor Economics, won the John Dewey Award of the League for Industrial Democracy
Joel Zwick (born 1942), professor in the Film Department, director of Full House, Fuller House, Family Matters, My Big Fat Greek Wedding, and Fat Albert
Passage 5:
Dorset Park
Dorset Park is a neighbourhood in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is located in the western part of the district of Scarborough. The neighbourhood is bordered by Highway 401 to the north, Midland Avenue to the east, Lawrence Avenue to the south, and Birchmount Road to the west. Kennedy Road runs along the neighbourhood's centre north and south and Ellesmere Road runs along the centre east and west. The area south of Lawrence Avenue, north of the hydro corridor, is known as McGregor Park and is often included as part of Dorset Park.
The business district of Scarborough is carried right through the heart of Dorset Park along Kennedy Road from Highway 401 to Lawrence Avenue. The business district along Kennedy Road is a 3.5 kilometre stretch of the road with nothing but stores, businesses and high rise buildings. Kennedy Commons, a large strip mall, is located on Kennedy Road, between Highway 401 and Ellesmere Road.

History
The area was formerly farmland, with the majority of the housing built in the 1950s. Among the landmarks are Pizza Nova, founded in 1963.

Education
One public school board operates schools in Dorset Park, the secular Toronto District School Board (TDSB). Public elementary schools operated by TDSB include:

General Crerar Public School
Dorset Park Public School
Ellesmere-Statton Public School is a elementary school located on Ellesmere Road between Birchmount and Kennedy Roads. This school is a merger of two schools, Ellesmere Junior Public School (founded in 1953, replacing S.S No. 4 that opened in the 1840s) and Wendell Statton Senior Public School (built in 1972 and opened in September 1973). Both buildings are connected to each other and the school has a diverse population of 640 students. It is named after long time Scarborough educator Wendell W. Statton, who was a principal of Ellesmere P.S.
Glamorgan Public Junior School.TDSB also operates one secondary school, Winston Churchill Collegiate Institute.
Schooling for students residing in Dorset Park is also provided by the public school boards, the Toronto Catholic District School Board (TCDSB), and Conseil scolaire catholique MonAvenir (CSCM), Conseil scolaire Viamonde (CSM). CSCM and TCDSB are separate school boards, the former being French first language separate school board, whereas CSV is a French-first language secular school board.

See also
List of neighborhoods in Scarborough

External links
City of Toronto profile
Passage 6:
The Siege
The Siege is a 1998 American action thriller film directed by Edward Zwick. The film is about a fictional situation in which terrorist cells have made several attacks in New York City. The film stars Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, Tony Shalhoub, and Bruce Willis.

Plot
FBI Special Agent Anthony Hubbard and his Lebanese American partner Frank Haddad intervene at the hijacking of a bus fully loaded with passengers, which contains an explosive device. The bomb turns out to be a paint bomb and the terrorists escape. The FBI receives demands to release Sheikh Ahmed bin Talal, a suspect in an earlier bombing. Hubbard eventually comes into conflict with Central Intelligence Agency operative Elise Kraft as he takes a terrorist suspect into custody and arrests Kraft. Later, another terrorist threat is made and a Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus is bombed. FBI captures a man named Samir Nazhde, who admits to signing the visa application of one of the suicide bombers in the course of signing many applications for student visas in his job as a lecturer. However, Kraft insists that Samir is not a terrorist and that his continued freedom is vital to the investigation.
The terrorist incidents escalate with the bombing of a bus and a crowded theater and hostage-situation at an elementary school, and culminate in the destruction of One Federal Plaza, the location of the FBI's New York City field office, with over 600 casualties. In spite of objections, the President of the United States declares martial law and the United States Army's 101st Airborne Division, under General William Devereaux, occupies and seals off Brooklyn in an effort to find the remaining terrorist cells. Subsequently, all young men of Arab descent, including Haddad's son Frank Jr., are rounded up and detained in Downing Stadium. Haddad resigns in outrage. New Yorkers stage violent demonstrations against the Army and the profiling of the Arabs; the Army fights to maintain control. There are reports of Army killings.
Hubbard and Kraft, now revealed to be an intelligence operative named Sharon Bridger, continue their investigation and capture a suspect, Tariq Husseini. Devereaux's men torture and kill Husseini in the course of the interrogation. Afterward, Bridger tells Hubbard that Husseini revealed nothing of value because of the principle of compartmentalized information. Sickened, she finally admits that she herself provided training and support to militants opposed to Saddam Hussein's regime, working with Samir to recruit and train the followers of the Sheikh. After the U.S. cut their funding and left them exposed, she took pity on the few of them who had not yet been slaughtered by Hussein's forces, and arranged for them to escape to the United States, ultimately leading to the present situation as they turn their bomb making and covert skills on the country that now holds their leader. She and Hubbard compel Samir to arrange a meeting with the final terrorist cell. Hubbard convinces Haddad to return to the FBI.
A multi-ethnic peace march demonstrates against the occupation of Brooklyn. As the march is getting under way Hubbard and Haddad arrive at the meeting place, but Bridger and Samir have already left. Samir reveals to Bridger that he constitutes the final cell while in another sense he says, "there will never be a last cell." He straps a bomb to his body which he intends to detonate among the marchers. Hubbard and Haddad arrive in time to prevent him from leaving a bath house, but Samir shoots Bridger in the stomach as she struggles to stop him. Hubbard and Haddad kill Samir but despite their best efforts the pair can only watch as Bridger succumbs to her wound after managing to recite certain lines of the second half of the Lord's Prayer and concluding with "Inshallah" – the Arabic phrase "God Willing".
Hubbard, Haddad, and their team raid Devereaux's headquarters to make an arrest for the torture and murder of Husseini. Deveraux insists that under the War Powers Resolution the authority vested in himself by the President supersedes that of the court which issued the arrest warrant. He then commands his soldiers to aim their assault rifles at the agents, resulting in a Mexican standoff. Hubbard reminds Devereaux that the civil liberties and human rights which he took from Husseini are what all his predecessors have fought and died for. Devereaux finally submits and is arrested. Martial law ends and the detainees, including Haddad's son, are given their freedom.

Cast
Denzel Washington as FBI Assistant Special Agent in Charge Anthony 'Hub' Hubbard
Annette Bening as CIA Operative Sharon Bridger / Elise Kraft
Bruce Willis as U.S. Army General William Devereaux
Tony Shalhoub as FBI Special Agent Frank Haddad
Aasif Mandvi as Khalil Saleh
Amro Salama as Tariq Husseini
Sami Bouajila as Samir Nazhde
Ahmed Ben Larby as Sheik Akhmed Bin Talal
Lianna Pai as FBI Agent Tina Osu
Mark Valley as FBI Agent Mike Johanssen
David Proval as FBI Agent Danny Sussman
Lance Reddick as FBI Agent Floyd Rose
Lisa Lynn Masters as Reporter

Reception
Critical response
The film received mixed reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes awards the film a score of 44% based on 62 reviews. The site's consensus states: "An exciting, well-paced action film." Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B−" on an A+ to F scale.Roger Ebert gave the film 21⁄2 stars out of four, writing that director Edward Zwick does a good job with crowd scenes, but criticizing it as clumsy.Bruce Willis won the Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Actor for his performances in this film, Armageddon, and Mercury Rising.

Box office
The film grossed $40,981,289 in North America and $75,691,623 in other territories on a budget of $70 million. In the film's second week, The Siege showed the teaser trailer for Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace.

Controversy
When the film opened, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee came out against the film. Its spokesman Hussein Ibish said "The Siege is extremely offensive. It's beyond offensive. We're used to offensive, that's become a daily thing. This is actually dangerous." He thought it was "Insidious and incendiary" because it "reinforces stereotypes that lead to hate crimes." Ibish acknowledged that Arab terrorists did, in fact, bomb the World Trade Center in 1993, but said that Arab and Islamic groups are upset by "the very strong equation between Muslim religious practices and terrorism. ...[Thanks to this film] Every time someone goes through the Muslim ablution, the ritual washing of hands everybody does before they pray five times a day, that image is the announcement to the viewer of the presence of violence." Echoing such criticism, the Council on American–Islamic Relations protested the insinuation that "Muslims have total disregard for human life." The groups were "faxing and calling news organizations on a regular basis" to voice their concerns.
Director Edward Zwick had met with Arab Americans, who suggested that the story be changed to mirror the aftermath of the Oklahoma City bombing, when Arabs were immediately assumed responsible. This idea was rejected.  Zwick noted that The Siege's villains also include members of the U.S. government, and dismissed the criticism, saying: Anytime you talk about issues that touch on religion of any kind, you can anticipate this kind of reaction. Should we only present every group as paragons and monoliths of virtue? The movie inspires to engender this kind of dialogue. I happen to come from the school that thinks that movies should not only make you uncomfortable, they might make you think. …You can anticipate any kind of reaction in these times in which sensitivity seems very high in the culture. I have a friend who says, if you've not offended somebody, you're a nobody. …How does it feel to be a lightning rod? It gets the blood going. I think it's better than being universally ignored. In a culture where there seems to be so much to talk about, it's good to be talked about.
What the movie is most deeply about – it's about our own latent possibilities of repression, stereotyping and prejudice [...] To see Americans rounded up in the streets, to see Americans put into stadiums, to see people held without habeas corpus – to have their rights violated in such a way is such a chilling and just terrifying thing to see – that is what one takes away, I believe, from this film.
In a September 2007 interview, screenwriter Lawrence Wright attributed the film's failure at the box office to Muslim and Arab protests at theaters playing the film, but also claimed that it was the most rented movie in America after the September 11 attacks.Scholar Moustafa Bayoumi has also critiqued the racialization of Arabs in the film and suggests it is indicative of an emerging sub-genre defined by "the notion of African-American leadership of the Arab world, intertwined with friendship with it."Scholar Alexandra Campbell quoted from former Guantanamo Bay detention camp captive Tarek Dergoul when she compared the fictional demonization and extrajudicial abuse of Muslims in the film and the abuse that Dergoul described in his first post-repatriation interview.On July 12, 2006, the magazine Mother Jones provided excerpts from the transcripts of a selection of the Guantánamo detainees. Yunis Abdurrahman Shokuri was one of the detainees profiled. According to the article, his transcript contained the following comment:

[T]he only way I know the United States is through movies from Hollywood or through cartoons. I’m a big fan of a lot of their singers…. [T]he first time I saw an American soldier was at Kandahar Air Base…. When I first saw myself in Kandahar, it was like I was in a cinema or a movie. I saw a 1996 movie called The Siege. The movie was about terrorists carrying out terrorist attacks in the United States…. [In the movie] the CIA and FBI were not successful in finding that terrorist group and the United States Army interfered and gathered all the people of Arabic descent and put them in a land cage or camp just like it happened in Kandahar. I was shocked, thinking, "Am I in that movie or on a stage in Hollywood?"… Sometimes I laugh at myself and say, "When does that movie end?"
Passage 7:
Satoru Nishita
Satoru Nishita (July 4, 1927-  July 16, 2013) was a landscape architect and a partner in the architectural firm Lawrence Halprin & Associates, based in San Francisco. He was one of Lawrence Halprin's earliest employees, hired in 1951. He became a principal of Halprin's firm in 1964. During the period 1975 - 1977, he and several other employees bought and re-formed Halprin's as Carter Hull Nishita McCulley Baxter & Associates. The company later became Nishita & Carter, Inc. and operated through 1989.
Nishita worked on several of Halprin's projects in the United States and Japan, including the Lovejoy Fountain Park (as partner in charge), Pettygrove Park, and the Ira Keller Fountain, all in Portland, Oregon. He retired from practice for health reasons in the early 1990s.
Passage 8:
Sharbot Lake (Ontario)
Sharbot Lake is a lake in the municipality of Central Frontenac, Frontenac County in Eastern Ontario, Canada. It is part of the Saint Lawrence River drainage basin. The eponymous community of Sharbot Lake is located at the centre of the north shore of the lake.
The primary outflow, at the northeast, is the Fall River, which flows via the Mississippi River and the Ottawa River to the Saint Lawrence River.
Sharbot Lake Provincial Park is named for, and is partly on the northwest shore of, the lake, but mostly envelops the neighbouring Black Lake. Ontario Highway 7 runs roughly along the northwest side of the lake, and the former Ontario Highway 38, now County Road 38, crosses the lake at the location of the community of Sharbot Lake. The same crossing point is used by the multi-use K&P Rail Trail (part of the Trans Canada Trail), formerly the rail bed of the Kingston and Pembroke Railway.
Sharbot Lake is named after a First Nations Chief named Francis Chabot, who was Mohawk and his wife Algonquin.

Tributaries
Clockwise from the Fall River outflow

Sucker Harbour Creek
Sharbot Creek

See also
List of lakes in Ontario
Passage 9:
Lawrence Landweber
Lawrence Hugh Landweber is  John P. Morgridge Professor Emeritus of computer science at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.
He received his bachelor's degree  in 1963 at Brooklyn College and his Ph.D. at Purdue University in 1967. His doctoral thesis was "A design algorithm for sequential machines and definability in monadic second-order arithmetic."He is best known for founding the CSNET project in 1979, which later developed into NSFNET. He is credited with having made the fundamental decision to use the TCP/IP protocol.

Publications
He is co-author of  Brainerd, Walter S., and Lawrence H. Landweber. Theory of Computation. New York: Wiley, 1974. ISBN 978-0-471-09585-9.

Awards
President, Internet Society  
Fellow, ACM.
Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters, Brooklyn College, 2009  
IEEE Award on International Communication, 2005
Member of the board of  Internet2 (2000–2008)
Jonathan B. Postel Service Award of the Internet Society, for CSNET, 2009
In 2012, Landweber was inducted into the Internet Hall of Fame by the Internet Society.
Passage 10:
Lawrence Township Historic District
The Lawrence Township Historic District is a 550-acre (220 ha) historic district encompassing the community of Lawrenceville in Lawrence Township, Mercer County, New Jersey, United States. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places on September 14, 1972 for its significance in architecture, landscape architecture, literature, military history, and transportation. The district includes 45 contributing buildings.

Description
The district includes a number of buildings along US Route 206 (formerly King's Highway, as well as the Lincoln Highway), two early cemeteries associated with the Presbyterian Church of Lawrenceville (Est. 1697), and the Lawrenceville School. Prominent architects represented in the district include Peabody and Stearns, William Adams Delano, and Frederick Law Olmsted.

See also
National Register of Historic Places listings in Mercer County, New Jersey
Passage 11:
The Price of Happiness
The Price of Happiness is a lost 1916 silent film drama directed by Edmund Lawrence and starring Mary Boland. It was distributed through the World Film Company. The film was based on a play called (Drei Paar Schuhe: Three Pairs of Shoes).

Cast
Mary Boland - Bertha Miller
Marion Singer - Lucille
Enid Francis - Ruth Taylor
Carlotta De Felice - Evelyn Morgan (*billed Carlotta De Felico)
Albert Bechtel - Max
David Wall - John Miller (*billed as Dave Wall)
Adolphe Menjou - Howard Neal
Passage 12:
Ministry of Higher Education (Egypt)
The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research is one of the governmental ministries of Egypt and part of the cabinet. It was formed in 1961.

History
The ministry was established on 9 November 1961, when university education in Egypt became free.The ministry employed seven different ministers between March 2011 and June 2013. Amr Ezzat Salama was one of the ministers during this period.Mostafa Mussad served as minister of higher education from August 2012 to July 2013 when Hossam Eisa replaced him in the post. The ministry was headed by El Sayed Abdel Khalek between June 2014 and September 2015. He was replaced by Ashraf El-Shihy in the post. In February 2017, Khaled Abdel Ghaffar was appointed to head the ministry.

Organization and activities
The major function of the ministry, based in Cairo is to introduce, develop and monitor all the higher education-related policies. The ministry is responsible for the educational activity in Egyptian universities, both public and private. The ministry realizes this function through three executive bodies, namely the Supreme Council of Universities, the Supreme Council of Private Universities and the Supreme Council of Technical Institutions.In addition, the ministry supervises the Academy of the Arabic Language and the National Committee of UNESCO. The ministry has international bureaus, including the Egyptian Cultural and Educational Bureau in Washington, D.C..In early 2018, the ministry with Minya University, spearheaded a week-long sports event for people with disabilities. It was the first of its kind in Egypt's history, as Egypt works to include the disabled in social activities.In 2018 it was announced that starting from Kindergarten, Egyptian children would be learning English.
Passage 13:
Jumping Ship
Jumping Ship is the 2001 sequel to the 1999 Disney Channel Original Movie, Horse Sense. It stars brothers Joey Lawrence, Matthew Lawrence, and Andy Lawrence. The film was directed by Michael Lange.

Plot
Although Michael has become a more mature individual since the first film and shows more concern for others, he still feels that, by birthright, he deserves to start at the top of his father's law firm. Michael's father does offer him a position at the law firm: a clerking job, and explains that only after thorough knowledge of the firm, a law school graduation, and passing the state bar will he ever be considered for a partnership.
Michael takes a summer vacation with Tommy to Australia. Michael has big plans to show his cousin Tommy a good time aboard a luxury yacht, until he discovers that the yacht he chartered is actually an old, rusty fishing boat. But when modern-day pirates chase the fishing boat, the boys are forced to jump ship, leaving them stranded on a desert island. The pirates are led by Frakes, who earlier had pick-pocketed Michael and discovered through his ID that he comes from a wealthy family. The pirates plan to kidnap Michael for a large ransom.
Meanwhile, Tommy and Michael struggle to find their way on the island to be met by the boat's captain, Jake Hunter, who scuttled the fishing boat to lose the pirates. He later admits he hated being a fishing boat captain and only stuck with it because it was his late-father's calling. After several days the pirates finally find the boys when Michael shoots a flare gun to get an airplanes attention. As they attempt to leave the island on their raft two of the pirates approach them. Michael and Jake swim away and leave Tommy who can't get his life jacket off behind, promising to rescue him later. Michael and Jake come up with a plan to get Tommy back.
Jake and Tommy outwit the pirates by absconding in their speedboat, Frakes attempts to shoot Michael, but fails due to his firearm being gunked up with quicksand he had gotten trapped in earlier while chasing Michael; leaving the villains stranded. As the boys escape they call the Australian Coast Guard for help. The pirates are arrested and their speedboat is seized.
During a lunch the boys have with Michael's father and Tommy's mom, Michael arrives and tells Jake and Tommy that due to asset forfeiture, Frakes' boat is now their property. Michael proposes using the speedboat, combined with the reward money, to launch a boat tour service with Jake and Tommy as his partners, and Jake captaining the boat. Michael also tells his father that he will begin the process for law school application, and accepts his dad's clerking job to help him prepare for that. Michael's father is proud of him for going into the business with him (but now with a more mature view), now realizing that there is no royal road to success.

Cast
Joey Lawrence as Michael Woods
Matthew Lawrence as Jake Hunter
Andrew Lawrence as Tommy Biggs
Anthony Wong as Frakes
Jaime Passier-Armstrong as Jonas
Martin Dingle-Wall as Dante
Susan Walters as Jules Biggs
Stephen Burleigh as Glen Woods
Todd Worden as Mark Sanders
Carly Movizio as Heather Hitt
Jack Heywood as Valet

Home media
The film was released on DVD as an exclusive on the Disney Movie Club promotional website in early 2005. In November 2019, the film became available to stream on Disney+.

External links
Jumping Ship at IMDb
Passage 14:
Government-granted monopoly
In economics, a government-granted monopoly (also called a "de jure monopoly" or "regulated monopoly") is a form of coercive monopoly by which a government grants exclusive privilege to a private individual or firm to be the sole provider of a good or service; potential competitors are excluded from the market by law, regulation, or other mechanisms of government enforcement. As a form of coercive monopoly, government-granted monopoly is contrasted with an unregulated monopoly, wherein there is no competition but it is not forcibly excluded.Amongst forms of coercive monopoly it is distinguished from government monopoly or state monopoly (in which government agencies hold the legally enforced monopoly rather than private individuals or firms) and from government-sponsored cartels (in which the government forces several independent producers to partially coordinate their decisions through a centralized organization). Advocates for government-granted monopolies often claim that they ensure a degree of public control over essential industries, without having those industries actually run by the state. Opponents often criticize them as political favors to corporations. Government-granted monopolies may be opposed by those who would prefer free markets as well as by those who would prefer to replace private corporations with public ownership.

History
Under mercantilist economic systems, European governments with colonial interests often granted large and extremely lucrative monopolies to companies trading in particular regions, such as the Dutch East India Company.Today, government-granted monopolies may be found in public utility services such as public roads, mail, water supply, and electric power, as well as certain specialized and highly regulated fields such as education and gambling. In many countries, lucrative natural resources industries, especially the petroleum industry, are controlled by government-granted monopolies. Franchises granted by governments to operate public transit through public roads are another example.

Patent
A patent is a set of exclusive rights granted by a state or national government to an inventor or his/her assignee for a limited period of time in exchange for a public disclosure of an invention.
The procedure for granting patents, the requirements placed on the patentee, and the extent of the exclusive rights vary widely between countries according to national laws and international agreements. Typically, however, a patent application must include one or more claims defining the invention which must be new, inventive, and useful or industrially applicable. In many countries, certain subject areas are excluded from patents, such as business methods and mental acts. The exclusive right granted to a patentee in most countries is the right to prevent others from making, using, selling, or distributing the patented invention without permission.

Copyright
Copyright is a legal right created by the law of a country that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights for its use and distribution. This is usually only for a limited time. The exclusive rights are not absolute but subject to limitations and exceptions to copyright law, including fair use. A major limitation on copyright is that it protects only the original expression of ideas, and not the underlying ideas themselves.

Trademark
A trademark or trade mark is a distinctive sign or indicator used by an individual, business organization, or other legal entity to identify that the products or services to consumers with which the trademark appears originate from a unique source, and to distinguish its products or services from those of other entities.
Trademarks can act as a form of consumer protection that lowers the transaction costs between a buyer and seller who are not personally acquainted.

Directly mandated
Governments have granted monopolies to forms of copy prevention. In the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, for example, the proprietary Macrovision copy prevention technology is required for analog video recorders. Though other forms of copy prevention aren't prohibited, legally requiring Macrovision effectively grants it a monopoly and prevents other, potentially more effective copy prevention methods from being developed.

Background of the role of government
Rent-seeking behavior can be incentivized by monopolies, foreign trade restrictions and state subsidies. Governments can also create monopolies in an attempt to reduce inefficiency in markets.
Companies can also exhibit rent-seeking behavior even if not explicitly incentivized to do so. For example, a manufacturer that has no direct competitors can limit its output, thereby producing artificial scarcity. This scarcity, in turn, is used as justification for increased prices.
Monopoly creation is not always a strict market phenomenon. Voters, government officials, and government employees can be persuaded to allow the creation or protection of monopolies due to various incentives, because of actions by special interest groups that can impose costs on the general public, or because social goals other than economic efficiency are being pursued. Government granted monopolies constitute a fair portion of monopolized industries.

Natural monopolies
A natural monopoly occurs when a single company dominates the market by having the lowest prices or the products most in demand by consumers. Fixed costs and variable costs can both be factors. If the fixed costs associated with providing a service or product are very high, it may not make economic sense for new competitors to enter the market. For example, it is rarely worthwhile to build second or third tram networks in cities where tram infrastructure already exists. Because the fixed cost of construction is too high, the expected return is not worth the investment.
According to economist Arnold Harberger, the loss of deadweight from monopolies in the US manufacturing industry is only 0.1% of GNP, so the real problem is not the existence of monopolies. The real problems are the social and opportunity costs. These include time and resources expended by lobbyists, consumers, and producers who might otherwise redirect those resources to other, more productive activities.In the case of natural monopolies in private hands, regulation can be introduced to dissolve or restructure monopolies. The government can also regulate prices in certain sectors where natural monopolies develop. This can be done directly by setting the price (for example, the price of rail or gas) or by regulating the return (for example, in the case of telephone services). Whatever method is used, the goal is to lower prices to cost levels. Some economists, such as Thomas Sowell, Walter Williams, and Wayne Winegarden argue that price controls have disastrous economic effects or are otherwise immoral.

Alternative interpretation
Dennis Thompson notes, "Corruption is bad not because money and benefits change hands, and not because of the motives of participants, but because it privatizes valuable aspects of public life, bypassing processes of representation, debate, and choice."

Criticism
Opponents of government-granted monopoly often point out that such a firm is able to set its pricing and production policies without fear of breeding potential competition. They argue that this causes inefficiencies in the market place, such as unnecessarily high prices to consumers for the good or service being supplied. It has been argued that government-imposed price caps might avert this problem.
Some economists, such as Lenoard Read, argue that government-granted monopolies are immoral, whereas con-coercive monopolies are not necessarily so.

Examples of government-granted monopolies
Saudi Aramco
British East India Company
French East India Company
Theatre Royal, Drury Lane (formerly)
K–12 education
Federal Reserve System
Sociedade de Turismo e Diversões de Macau (formerly)
Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee and American Medical Association
Bell System

See also
Coercive monopoly
Legal monopoly
Copyright
Government monopoly
Monopoly
Natural monopoly
Rent seeking
Federal Reserve System

Notes
Passage 15:
A2 road (Jersey)
Victoria Avenue (classified as the A2) is a major road in Jersey, connecting the capital St Helier to Bel Royal in St Lawrence, also providing access to the western part of the A1 for non-bus traffic, due to a bus gate that prevents traffic from the A1 continuing on the A1. 
The road has been referred to as "the Island's most important route and event venue", due to the fact that 30,000 vehicles travel along the road each day, and it provides a vital route between the two largest conurbations on the island. The road also plays host to the island's largest annual festival, the Battle of Flowers.
It is the longest stretch of dual carriageway in the Channel Islands. The road has three signalised junctions, one at the eastern end of the road at West Park, one at First Tower and one at Millbrook.
Running along the southern side of the road is a series of car parks (known as "lay-bys"), a cycle track and the St Aubin's Bay promenade. The road has lovely views of the bay, and there are cafés and public toilets on the sea front.

History
The road was constructed between 1895 and the Diamond jubilee of Queen Victoria, after whom the road is named, in 1897. The road had initially been named for the former Connétable of St Helier Mr. Baudins as Boulevard Baudins. The road was originally a single carriageway, extending only as far as First Tower, however over time the road was extended and converted into a dual carriageway in the late 1950s.Aerial photographs from 1965 show that the two ends of the avenue were roundabouts at that time. Nowadays these have been removed.Between 2009 and 2010, upgrades to the road were part of a fiscal stimulus plan in response to the 2007 financial crisis. It involved the replaced of the aged drainage system, improvement of pedestrian facilities, the replacement of street lighting columns to improve energy efficiency and the lengthening of right-turn lanes to reduce congestion.In May 2020, the Government of Jersey announced that some parking in the lay-bys could be removed to promote sustainable transport in response to a rise in usage of the promenade and cycle track, and a reduction in usage of the road during the COVID-19 pandemic.

See also
Roads in Jersey
Passage 16:
Mr. Lawrence
Douglas Lawrence Osowski (born January 1, 1969), known professionally as Mr. Lawrence, is an American voice actor, animator and writer. He is best known for his work as a writer and voice actor for the Nicktoons Rocko's Modern Life and SpongeBob SquarePants. On SpongeBob, he has provided the voice of Plankton and various recurring characters since 1999.

Early life and career
Lawrence attended The Kubert School for two years, before dropping out to focus on his stand-up. He is known for his work as a writer (and, since season 10, story editor) on the animated TV series SpongeBob SquarePants. He also has long-running character roles on the show, providing the voice of Sheldon Plankton and various recurring characters, such as Potty the Parrot (replacing Paul Tibbitt from season 10 onwards), the Realistic Fish-Head, and Larry the Lobster.
He was the voice of Edward T. Platypus, Nurse Leslie, Dave, and Ping-Pong on Camp Lazlo. Lawrence also performed the voice of Filburt in Rocko's Modern Life and is the voice of the Announcer and Manant in The Aquabats! Super Show!. Lawrence is a standup comedian, cartoonist, writer-director, animator and producer on the television series Johnny Talk. He worked on The Ren and Stimpy Show in its second season as a layout assistant. He also worked as a writer on Rocko's Modern Life, The Twisted Whiskers Show, and Mighty Magiswords.
As a comedian, Lawrence performed in New Jersey and Los Angeles, collaborating with comedian Jeremy Kramer and Boston comedy writer Martin Olson. Jeff "Swampy" Marsh, a storyboard writer for Rocko's Modern Life and co-creator of Phineas and Ferb, described Lawrence as bearing a "unique sense of humor", and that one "would really have to know Doug to understand (or not understand)" his style. Marsh says that the rationale for Lawrence's humor techniques and decisions "remain a mystery to us forever."

Filmography
Films and television shows
Video games
Writer
Rocko's Modern Life (1993–96)
The Twisted Tales of Felix the Cat (1995–97)
SpongeBob SquarePants (1999–2002; 2009–present) - also story editor (2016–present)
Hairballs (2000)
Do the Voice (2003)
Johnnie Talk (2003)
SpongeBob's Truth or Square (2009)
The Haunted World of El Superbeasto (2009) – Additional screenplay material
The Twisted Whiskers Show (2010)
Lucky Lady (2014)
Mighty Magiswords (2015–2016) - Story
Wabbit (2015)
Rocko's Modern Life: Static Cling (2019)

Director
Looks Can Kill (1994)
Rocko's Modern Life (1993–1996) – Leap Frogs/Bedfellows (1993) - Sugar-Frosted Frights/Ed Is Dead: A Thriller! (1995) – Fish-N-Chumps/Camera Shy (1995) – Nothing to Sneeze At/Old Fogey Froggy (1995) – Speaking Terms/Tooth and Nail (1995)
The Twisted Tales of Felix the Cat (1995–97)
General Chaos: Uncensored Animation (1998)
Hairballs (2000)
The Haunted World of El Superbeasto (2009) – Assistant director
Lucky Lady (2014)

Other work
The Food Album (1993) – album art

Awards and nominations