Passage 1:
Azarbaijan Shahid Madani University
Azarbaijan Shahid Madani University, (Persian: دانشگاه شهید مدنی آذربایجان, Danushgah-e Shihid-e Midâni-ye Âzerbaijan) commonly called only Azarbaijan University, is a public university located near Tabriz, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran, founded in 1987. The university provides both undergraduate and graduate education to approximately 7,500 students at a wide range of fields including engineering, basic sciences, literature and theology. The university has got Research Gate's total impact point of 1716.47 from 61 publications, according to the latest statistics.

History
Azarbaijan University was founded in 1987 in Tabriz as a branch of Tehran's Tarbiat Moallem (teacher education) University. The initial objective of the university was to train teachers in different area for the fulfillment of Iranian government educational development policies and the major concern of the university was focused on training teachers for high schools and technical schools.
In 1988, Azarbaijan University became an independent university under the title Tabriz University of Tarbiat Moallem and later Azarbaijan University of Tarbiat Moallem. In 2012, due to changing of Iranian educational policies, the university turned to a general educational university under the title Azarbaijan Shahid Madani University. The name "Shahid Madani" comes from an Iranian cleric from Azarshahr who became a martyr in the early years of Islamic Revolution.
Recently, the university is expanding fast and it is planning to be one of the prominent educational and research centers in Iran. New faculty buildings are being opened, new young academic staff are being employed and a lot of academic activities are underway to convert the university to one of the most dynamic universities in northwestern Iran.

Faculties
Engineering
Basic Sciences
Literature and Human Sciences
Theology and Islamic Sciences
Information Technology
Psychology & Educational Sciences
Agriculture

Campuses
Azarbaijan University has two campuses:

Main campus is located in the countryside of Tabriz alongside the Tabriz - Maragheh highway, near Azarshahr and Mamaqan, 35 km Southwest of Tabriz. Administrative part, faculties, most of student dormitories, laboratories, workshops and amphitheaters are located in main campus. The campus also has a train station, 3 restaurants, bakery, a health center, and a shopping center.
Tabriz campus, which is located in Dampezeshki neighborhood of Tabriz, was established in 2013 with a focus on graduate studies in some of the theoretical engineering and science majors. The programs in Tabriz campus include Master of Science in: Analytical Chemistry, Theoretical Physics, Structural Engineering, Electrical Power Engineering, Applied Mathematics and PhD degree programs in: Analytical Chemistry, Atomic and Molecular Physics. Tabriz Campus holds the "Virtual and Distance Learning Center" of the university and also summer and short courses are held in this campus.

International Relations
Azarbaijan Shahid Madani University has cooperation and exchange programs with several universities and institutes in the Middle East and also in Asia and Europe. Some of them are as follows:

Kanazawa University in Japan
Khazar University in Azerbaijan
Gebze Technical University in Turkey
Siirt University in Turkey
Van Yüzüncü Yıl University in Turkey 
BBCA Institute in Italy

Student Communities
There are various student communities and associations with different academic, athletic or artistic objects:

Materials Student Association
Poetry and Literature Association
Music Association
Photography and Filming Association
Red Crescent Association
Charitable Association
Engineering Academic Communities
Literature Academic Communities
Basic Sciences Academic Communities
Psychology Academic Community
Botany Academic Community

Exclusive Train
Thanks to the Tehran - Tabriz railroad which passes through the university, Azarbaijan University is the only university in Iran with a railway station inside and its exclusive train which transports students between Tabriz and the university 4 times every business day. Due to the rising number of students. In morning and afternoon rush hours an older train is also used to increase the capacity.

See also
Higher education in Iran
List of universities in Iran
Passage 2:
2018 French Grand Prix
The 2018 French Grand Prix (formally known as the Formula 1 Pirelli Grand Prix de France 2018) was a Formula One motor race that took place on 24 June 2018 at the Circuit Paul Ricard in Le Castellet, France. The race was the eighth round of the 2018 FIA Formula One World Championship and marked the first time that the French Grand Prix has been run since 2008. It was the 87th running of the French Grand Prix, and the 59th time the event had been included as a round of the Formula One World Championship since the inception of the series in 1950.Ferrari driver Sebastian Vettel entered the race with a one-point lead over Lewis Hamilton in the World Drivers' Championship. In the World Constructors' Championship, Mercedes led Ferrari by seventeen points. Hamilton took the lead in the Driver's Championship by winning the race, with Vettel finishing fifth.

Background
The race returned to the calendar for the first time since 2008, with Circuit Paul Ricard chosen as the venue. The circuit last hosted the French Grand Prix in 1990 before the event moved to the Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours in 1991. The race used the 5.842 km (3.630 mi) layout of the Circuit Paul Ricard for the first time. The layout includes a chicane on the Mistral straight as opposed to the 5.809 km (3.610 mi) circuit that was used nine times between 1971 and 1985.The race was run in June, filling a vacancy left by the Azerbaijan Grand Prix. The race in Azerbaijan was moved to an April date to avoid clashing with celebrations for the centenary of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic.

Drag reduction system
The circuit featured two drag reduction system (DRS) zones. The first was located along the main straight, while the second was on the Mistral Straight on the approach to the chicane.

Tyres
Tyre supplier Pirelli provided teams with the soft, supersoft and ultrasoft compounds of tyres. They reverted to their narrow tread compound following feedback from the teams in the wake of mid-season testing at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya.

Free practice
Lewis Hamilton set the fastest lap in the first free practice session, which was cut short by an accident involving Sauber driver Marcus Ericsson. Ericsson lost control of his Sauber C37 on the approach to Turn 11 and spun into the barrier on the outside of the corner. The car hit the tyre wall at an angle and subsequently caught fire. Ericsson was unharmed, but with two minutes remaining the session was abandoned and the damage to his car so extensive that he was unable to take part in the second free practice session. Several drivers experienced spins during the session, most notably at Turn 6 where an intermittent and gusty local wind caught the drivers unaware as they accelerated away from the apex of the corner. Unlike Ericsson, all of the drivers avoided contact with the wall courtesy of the circuit's unique, abrasive tarmac run-off areas designed to slow down cars that left the circuit.
Hamilton was fastest again in the second free practice session despite having his flying lap interrupted by another red flag. Sergio Pérez lost a wheel as he turned onto the Mistral Straight, prompting race officials to mount an investigation as to whether Force India had released Pérez from the pit lane with his car in an unsafe condition. The session was restarted once Pérez's car was cleared away.

Qualifying
Notes^1  – Brendon Hartley received a 35-place grid penalty for exceeding his quota of power unit components.

Race
Race report
At the start Sebastian Vettel ran into the back of Valtteri Bottas, with both sustaining damage and having to pit for repairs, also there was a separate collision between Pierre Gasly and Esteban Ocon leaving both cars stranded out on the track, this brought out a brief safety car period lasting till the end of lap 5. Vettel would later receive a penalty for his collision with Bottas which meant he would only manage to finish 5th. Lance Stroll suffered a tyre puncture near the end of the race causing a virtual safety car, which ended with only half a lap left of the race. Lewis Hamilton comfortably won ahead of Max Verstappen, while Kimi Räikkönen completed the podium.

Race classification
Notes^1  – Sergey Sirotkin had 5 seconds added to his race time for driving unnecessarily slowly behind the safety car.
^2  – Fernando Alonso and Lance Stroll retired from the race, but were classified as they completed more than 90% of the race distance.

Championship standings after the race
Note: Only the top five positions are included for both sets of standings.

See also
2018 Le Castellet Formula 2 round
2018 Le Castellet GP3 Series round

Notes
Passage 3:
Hans Albert Einstein
Hans Albert Einstein (May 14, 1904 – July 26, 1973) was a Swiss-American engineer and educator, the second child and first son of physicists Albert Einstein and Mileva Marić. He was a long-time professor of hydraulic engineering at the University of California, Berkeley.Einstein was widely recognized for his research on sediment transport. To honor his outstanding achievement in hydraulic engineering, the American Society of Civil Engineers established the "Hans Albert Einstein Award" in 1988 and the annual award is given to those who have made significant contributions to the field.

Early life
Hans Albert Einstein was born on May 14, 1904, in Bern, Switzerland, where his father, Albert Einstein, worked as a clerk in the Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property. His father was of German-Jewish descent and his mother, Mileva Marić, Serbian. His younger brother, Eduard Einstein, was born in 1910 and died in 1965. In 1913, Hans and Eduard were baptized as 
Orthodox Christians in the Orthodox Church of Saint Nicholas in Novi Sad. The fate of his older sister, Lieserl Einstein, Albert Einstein's and Mileva Marić's first child, is unknown, although it has been suggested she died of scarlet fever in 1903. Their parents divorced in 1919 after living apart for five years.

Career
In 1922, Hans followed in his parents' footsteps and entered ETH Zurich, where he studied civil engineering, graduating in 1926. From 1926 to 1930 he worked at the steel design company Klönne, in Dortmund, Germany. From 1931 to 1938, he worked as a research engineer at the newly founded Laboratory of Hydraulics and Soil Mechanics (VAWE) at ETH Zurich. There, in 1936 Hans Albert obtained a doctorate in technical science. His doctoral thesis "Bed Load Transport as a Probability Problem" (Der Geschiebetrieb als Wahrscheinlichkeitsproblem) is considered the definitive work on sediment transport.Hans' father, Albert, left Germany in 1933 to escape the persecution of Jews by the Nazi government. Heeding his father's advice, Hans emigrated from Switzerland to Greenville, South Carolina, in 1938. He worked for the US Department of Agriculture, studying sediment transport from 1938 to 1943. He continued working for the USDA at the California Institute of Technology starting in 1943. In 1947 he took a position as associate professor of hydraulic engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. He advanced to full professor, and later professor emeritus.  Einstein traveled the world to participate in hydraulic engineering conferences. He was at a symposium at Woods Hole in Massachusetts when he collapsed and died from heart failure on July 26, 1973.Einstein was honored by a Guggenheim Fellowship (1953), research awards from the American Society of Civil Engineers (1959 and 1960), the Berkeley Citation from the University of California (1971), the Certificate of Merit from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (1971), and a certificate of recognition for more than 20 years of devoted and distinguished service to Applied Mechanics Reviews by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (1972).Hans was also made an member of Pi Tau Sigma in December 1949 with honorary membership grade.
In 1958 he was the principal guest of honor at the Technion's dedication of a new building housing the Albert Einstein Institute of Physics.
 
Hans Albert Einstein died due to heart failure on July 26, 1973 in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. His papers are held at the Water Resources Collections and Archives in the University of California, Riverside Libraries and in the University of Iowa Libraries Special Collections and Archives.

Personal life
In 1927, Hans Albert Einstein married Frieda Knecht. They had four children:

Bernhard Caesar Einstein (10 July 1930 – 30 September 2008), who was a physicist and engineer.
Klaus Martin Einstein (1932–1939), died of diphtheria aged six.
David Einstein (October–November 1939), died aged one month.
Evelyn Einstein (28 March 1941 – 13 April 2011), adopted.Knecht died in 1958, and Hans Albert married neurochemist Elizabeth Roboz (1904–1995) the following year.Einstein was an avid sailor, frequently taking colleagues and family out for excursions on the San Francisco Bay. On his many field trips and academic excursions, he took thousands of pictures, many of which he developed himself and presented as slide shows. He also loved music, as denoted on his gravestone, and he played flute and piano.

See also
Einstein family
Genius, a television series depicting the Einsteins
Passage 4:
2017 Qatar motorcycle Grand Prix
The 2017 Qatar motorcycle Grand Prix was the first round of the 2017 MotoGP season. It was held at the Losail International Circuit in Doha on 26 March 2017. For all the three classes, the starting grid was formed by each rider's best time from any of the three free practice sessions held, after rain cancelled the planned qualifying sessions.In the MotoGP race, Maverick Viñales won on his first outing for Yamaha, becoming the first rider to do so on début for Yamaha since his teammate Valentino Rossi did the same back in 2004.
The Moto2 class saw the début of the KTM Moto2 chassis package, following KTM's expansion into Moto2 along with MotoGP with the RC16.

Classification
MotoGP
Moto2
Moto3
Gabriel Rodrigo suffered a broken collarbone in a crash during the opening free practice and withdrew from the event.

Championship standings after the race
MotoGP
Below are the standings for the top five riders and constructors after round one has concluded.

Note: Only the top five positions are included for both sets of standings.

Moto2
Moto3
Notes
Passage 5:
Lap Engine
The Lap Engine is a beam engine designed by James Watt, built by Boulton and Watt in 1788. It is now preserved at the Science Museum, London.
It is important as both an early example of a beam engine by Boulton and Watt, and also mainly as illustrating an important innovative step in their development for its ability to produce rotary motion.The engines name comes from its use in Matthew Boulton's Soho Manufactory, where it was used to drive a line of 43 polishing or lapping machines, used for the production of buttons and buckles.

Innovations
Watt did not invent the steam engine and there is no single 'Watt steam engine' as such. He developed a number of separate innovations, each of which improved the existing engines of the day, beginning with Newcomen's.  The Lap Engine of 1788, also the Whitbread Engine (1785), represent survivors of the first engines to show all of Watt's major improvements in one.

Parallel motion
Rotative beam engines
Sun and planet gear
The rotative beam engine needs a means to convert reciprocating motion of the piston and beam to rotary motion. The crankshaft was well known for centuries before Watt, mostly from its use in mining machinery powered by water wheels. However its use for a steam engine was covered by James Pickard's patent at this time. Watt was unwilling to pay a license fee to use the crank and so sought an alternative. The sun and planet gear was invented by another Scottish engineer, William Murdoch, an employee of Boulton and Watt. Watt patented it in October 1781.
The sun and planet gear is a simple epicyclic gear. The planet is attached rigidly to the end of the connecting rod, hung from the beam. As it rotates it applies a torque to the sun gear, just as for a crank, and so causes it to rotate. As the two gears also rotate relative to each other, like conventional gearwheels, this has the effect of giving the sun gear a further rotation. The sun, and the output crankshaft, thus rotates twice for every piston cycle of the engine, twice as fast as with a conventional crank. Beam engines were slow-moving and the output shafts driven by the Lap Engine were fast-moving, so this was an advantage.

Centrifugal governor
According to the Science Museum, it was the first steam engine to be fitted with a centrifugal governor.

History
Preservation
Notes
Passage 6:
Meenakshi Sundararajan Engineering College
Meenakshi Sundararajan Engineering College (MSEC) (Tamil:மீனாட்சி சுந்தரராஜன் பொறியியல் கல்லூரி) is an engineering college in Kodambakkam, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India and it is founded in 2001.

History
The Engineering College was founded in 2001 by the educationist of South India, Professor K.R.Sundararajan. Meenakshi Sundararajan Engineering College is a part of the KRS Group of Institutions which includes the Indian Institute of Technical Education (IIET, est. 1947), Meenakshi College for Women and the Meenakshi Sundararajan School of Management. Institutions dedicated to impart qualitative education and research for both under-graduate and post-graduate education in the fields of Engineering, Arts, Science, Commerce and Management.

Courses
B.E. Electrical and Electronics Engineering
B.Tech Information Technology
B.E. Mechanical Engineering
B.E. Civil Engineering
B.E. Computer Science and Engineering
B.E. Electronics and Communication Engineering
M.E. Construction Engineering and Management
Passage 7:
Marvin R. Sambur
Marvin Robert Sambur (born March 31, 1946) is an American engineer and businessman who served as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition) from 2001 to 2005.
Sambur was educated at the City College of New York, receiving his B.S. in electrical engineering in 1968.  He then joined the technical staff of Bell Labs in Murray Hill, New Jersey, while continuing his education. He received an M.S. in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1969 and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from MIT in 1972.Sambur worked at Bell Labs until 1977, when he joined ITT Defense Communications in Nutley, New Jersey, as senior vice president.  In 1988, he moved to Easton, Pennsylvania, to become president and general manager of the ITT's Electron Technology division.  He held that position until 1991, when he became president and general manager of ITT's Aerospace/Communications division in Fort Wayne, Indiana.  Finally, in 1998, he became president and CEO of ITT Defense in McLean, Virginia.In 2001, President of the United States George W. Bush nominated Sambur to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition).  He held the office until January 2005.After leaving government service, Sambur co-founded Raptors Consulting Group, based in Potomac, Maryland.  He also joined the faculty of the A. James Clark School of Engineering.Sambur had been a resident of Denville Township, New Jersey.


== Notes ==
Passage 8:
1963 Mexican Grand Prix
The 1963 Mexican Grand Prix was a Formula One motor race held at the Ciudad Deportiva Magdalena Mixhuca in Mexico City on October 27, 1963. It was race 9 of 10 in both the 1963 World Championship of Drivers and the 1963 International Cup for Formula One Manufacturers.
Jim Clark dominated the race from pole position, a time that was 1.7 seconds faster than anybody else. Mexico was considered one of his most successful venues. His fastest lap of the race eclipsed his pole time by 0.7 seconds, and he lapped the entire field except for second and third behind him. He eventually scored a total of five pole positions, four fastest laps and three victories at the venue in his Formula One career. This was also his sixth win, his sixth fastest lap, and his sixth pole position of the nine races completed in 1963.This was also the only World Championship Grand Prix where a car raced with the number 13 until Pastor Maldonado selected the number as his permanent race number in 2014.

Classification
Qualifying
Race
Surtees was disqualified for a push-start.

Championship standings after the race

Notes: Only the top five positions are included for both sets of standings. Only the best 6 results counted towards the Championship. Numbers without parentheses are Championship points; numbers in parentheses are total points scored.
Passage 9:
Thiruvalluvar College of Engineering and Technology
Thiruvalluvar College of Engineering and Technology or popularly known as TCET,  located in Vandavasi, Tamil Nadu, India is a private educational institution in India.

About
Varadhammal manickam education and charitable trust [VMECT] was founded in 1996 as a non-profitable organization at 178,vagataranam pillai street, Triplicane, Chennai 600 005. The administrative office is located at R 6/4, vaigai street, bezant nagar, Chennai -600 090. The trustees are eminent personalities in various walks of life such as education, research, industry, business, administration etc.
Thiruvalluvar College of Engineering and Technology was founded in the year 1998 by Prof. Dr. S. Arunachalam M.E (Civil), PhD a Former Professor in Anna University and Former Syndicate Member - Anna University, Chennai.
The Institution is approved by A.I.C.T.E - All India Council for Technical Education, New Delhi and Affiliated to Anna University Chennai.

External links
Thiruvalluvar College of Engineering and Technology
Passage 10:
Callcott Reilly
Callcott Reilly (28 October 1828 – 21 May 1900) was a British civil and construction engineer. He is noted for his work on uniform stress, as illustrated by reference to bridge building, for which the Institution of Civil Engineers awarded him the Telford Medal in 1865.  He played a prominent role in promoting the professional education of engineers and in 1871 became the first Professor of Engineering Construction at the newly formed Royal Indian Engineering College (RIEC) located at Coopers Hill near Englefield Green.
Passage 11:
André Milhoux
André Milhoux (born 9 December 1928) is a former racing driver from Belgium.  He participated in one Formula One World Championship Grand Prix, the 1956 German Grand Prix on 5 August 1956, but had to retire after 15 laps due to an engine failure. He scored no championship points.

Complete Formula One World Championship results
(key)
Passage 12:
Malaviya Regional Engineering College
Malaviya National Institute of Technology Jaipur (MNIT or NIT Jaipur) is a public technical university located in Jaipur, India with, an emphasis on science, engineering and management.
Formerly known as Malaviya Regional Engineering College (MREC) Jaipur, it assumed its present name in 2002 and was recognised as an Institute of National Importance in 2007. It was founded in 1963 with only two engineering branches and now comprises fourteen departments, a school of management and allied centres. The institute is fully funded by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India and is governed by a Senate as per NIT Statutes.

History
The institute was established in 1963 as Malaviya Regional Engineering College (MREC), as a joint venture of the government of India and the Government of Rajasthan. It was named after Madan Mohan Malaviya. V.G. Garde was its first principal. The college moved to the present campus in Jaipur in 1965.It used to offer five-year Bachelor of Engineering programs in Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, and Metallurgical Engineering. The duration of the B.E. Degree Course was changed to four years from the year 1983.The institute was upgraded to a National Institute of Technology and was declared a Deemed University on 26 June 2002 since then the institute started offering Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) degree instead of Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) degree.On 15 August 2007, MNIT and all other NITs were declared Institutes of National Importance by the government of India under the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007. The institute is now under The Ministry of Education (MHRD), New Delhi. It has been selected to participate in the Technical Education Quality Improvement Program of the government of India and the World Bank.Milestone: MNIT celebrated its Golden Jubilee foundation year in 2013.

Academics
Programmes
MNIT offers a wide variety of study in engineering, sciences, management, design, and humanities with a primary focus on engineering. Eight four-year undergraduate courses of study led to the Bachelor of Technology degree and a five-year undergraduate course leading to the Bachelor of Architecture degree, with a total of over 5,000 students. Postgraduate degrees award Master of Technology (M.Tech.), Master of Science (M.Sc.), Master of Business Administration (M.B.A) and Master of Urban Planning. There are also doctoral programs with over 300 students. There are over 150 faculty members engaged in teaching and research.

Financial aid
More than 30 financial aid schemes are made available to students under different criteria to support institute fees and in some cases hostel accommodation as well.

Requisites for enrolments
Admission to undergraduate courses of the institute is through the Central Seat Allocation Board (CSAB) which takes into account the performance in Joint Entrance Examination (JEE).Supernumerary seats are reserved for students from outside India who are nominated by the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India, and the Indian Council of Cultural Relations and DASA students. SAT scores are criteria for selection.Admission for post graduate courses namely Master of Technology (M.Tech.) and Master of Urban & Regional Planning (MURP) are through Centralized Counselling for MTech/MArch and M.Plan (CCMT) after Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE).Admission to M.Sc. is through CCMN (Centralized Counseling for MSc/MSc (Tech.)), admission to M.B.A. is through GMAT/CAT followed by GD, PI and Ph.D. are through department's respective written test followed by an interview.

Rankings
Malaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur was ranked 46th among engineering colleges by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2022.

Grading
MNIT follows the credit-based system of performance evaluation, with the proportional weighting of courses based on their importance. The total marks (usually out of 100) form the basis of grades, with a grade value (out of 10) assigned to a range of marks. This range of marks is decided by Grade Moderation Committee and is relative in nature. For each semester, the students are graded by taking a weighted average from all the courses with their respective credit points. Each semester's evaluation is done independently with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) reflecting the average performance across semesters.

Research
Research in the institute is sponsored by major government agencies which include the Indian Ordnance Factories, Ministry of Communication & IT, Govt. of India, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Department of Science and Technology (DST).

Collaboration with International Universities
University of Greenwich, London
Stevens Institute of Technology
North Dakota University
University of Saskatchewan
Deakin University
Florida International University
University of Dundee
Medine Education, Mauritius

Administration
The Organisational structure
MNIT shares a common Visitor (a position held by the President of India) who is the most powerful person in the NIT organizational structure and the NIT Council with the other sister NITs.
The board of governors consists of members nominated by the NIT Council, the director, representatives from the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource and Development, and Government of India.
The institute's director serves as the chief academic and executive officer of the institute. He is aided by the deputy director. Under the director and the deputy director are the deans, heads of departments, registrar, president of the students' council, and chairman of the hall management committee.
The registrar is the chief administrative officer and oversees day-to-day operations. He is the custodian of records, funds, and other properties of the institute.
Under the charge of the heads of departments (HODs) are the faculty (full-time professors as well as those of associate and assistant status). The wardens of hostels are placed under the chairman of the hall management committee in the organization.

Financing
Annually, the institute receives US$20 million from the Government of India and the World Bank.
Alumni and other bodies also donate to contribute to the development of the institute. Financial management is undertaken by the Financial Committee of the institute.

Academic policies
The academic policies of the institute are decided by its senate. It consists of the deans of the institute, all the professors, the director, educationists, and specialists. The senate controls and approves the curriculum, courses, examinations, and results and appoints committees to look into academic matters. The teaching, training, and research activities of the institute are reviewed by the senate to maintain educational standards. The director serves as the ex-officio and chairman of the senate.

Academic Events
MNIT Jaipur AICTE – Training Program on Design Thinking for Innovative Medical Devices

Motto
"Yogaḥ Karmasu Kauśalam" (योगः कर्मसु कौशलम् in Sanskrit). The motto literally translates to "Excellence in action is Yoga" essentially implying that doing your work well is (true) yoga or "Diligence leads to Excellence". It is sourced to Sri Krishna's discourse to Arjuna in Bhagavad Gita, Chapter 2, Verse 50. This quote in its larger context of Gita urges man to acquire equanimity because such a soul endowed with the mind of equanimity allows him to shed the effects of his good and evil deeds in this world itself. Equanimity is the source of perfection in Karmic endeavors while leading to Salvation.

Departments, Centres and Schools
Engineering departments
Architecture
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kota (temporary campus) – Computer Science Engineering and Electronics & Communication Engineering

Centres
Energy and Environment
Earthquake and Disaster Mitigation Centre
Innovation and Incubation Centre
Advance Materials Research Centre
Tribology Laboratory
Electronics & ICT Academy
Stones

Science Departments
Applied Biology
Mathematics
Physics (Photonics and Electronics )
Chemistry

Allied Departments
Humanities and Social Sciences
Department of Physical Education

Campus
MNIT's 317-acre campus is located in Jaipur, Rajasthan, approximately 2.5 miles (4 km) from Jaipur International Airport. It is 6 miles (10 km) from Pink City and is within walking distance of the business district therefore the two locations are frequent gateways for MNIT students. The vast campus is lush green and has a hill out of Aravali Ranges. 
Numerous buildings, and clusters constitute the campus. To the west are the departmental buildings, research laboratories, associations and club buildings, lecture theatres, bank (ICICI Bank), post office, canteens, lawns, auditoriums, main building, computer centre; to the east are Boys hostels, STP; to the north are guest houses, staff quarters, bank (SBI, ICICI); at the center and south are sports facilities and dispensary.

The dispensary is supervised by a team of Medical Officers and supported staff. The institute has a part-time Homeopathic doctor and Ayurvedic doctor on the campus. Canteen buildings, five in all, are near the instructional zone and hostels and in addition to it, an Amul parlor. The central canteen is run by Akshaya Patra Foundation. There are two guest houses on the campus for visitors, alumni, guests, and guardians of students.
Each Department has its own building which has laboratories, staff cabins, lecture halls, classrooms, auditoriums, departmental libraries, etc., and all are linked via a continuous gallery that runs throughout the eastern part.

Sports facilities
Facilities for sports and games include a soccer ground, a cricket ground with nets, three basketball courts, three lawn tennis courts, three volleyball courts, three raw volleyball courts, one indoor badminton court and other outdoor badminton courts, a gymnasium, a billiards room, a chess room, a jogging track, table tennis boards, and a swimming pool is in future plans.

Materials Research Center
Materials Research Center (MRC) has the infrastructure for advanced research in various streams with a focus on materials. The facilities are extended to the scientists and researchers of other institutes. Equipment at the center, set up at the cost of $6.3 million, offers a wide range of research assistance. Various machines, facilities and software are available in the lab.

Central Library
Now known as LEARNING RESOURCE CENTRE (LRC), aids the teaching and research programmes of the institute and provides facilities for general reading and information with 156,314 print books, 3,073 ebooks, 10,000 e-journals, international journals, technical pamphlets, standards, CD-ROMs and periodicals. In addition, it is connected to other library networks like DELNET, which enables students to access libraries of other 4697 Indian and International libraries. It is spread across a plinth area of 15,847 Sq. feet. The services and operations in the library are fully digital with RFID and Smart card systems with Koha (software).  In addition to books, it offers Wi-Fi and LAN services.

Computer Center
The centre has 10 computer laboratories. A Datacenter with Private Cloud using VMWare V Cloud Suite 5 and 64 TB of EMC2 Storage has also been established in the center. The Private Cloud has features of automated provisioning of IT resources, a single interface for administrators for the entire IT infrastructure, and workload elasticity. It is used for Library digitization, E-mail archival, hosting various services/applications and Research on cloud computing by Ph.D. and MTech students.

Vivekananda Lecture Theatre Complex (VLTC)
Vivekananda Lecture Hall complex will have 40 classrooms that could accommodate about 5,500 students at a time. It will have a food court in its basement. Its construction was started on 19 September 2012. It holds the record of being Asia's Largest Lecture Theatre Complex.Among other facilities, each hostel is equipped with Wi-fi and/or LAN, and a common room with a TV, LAN, table-tennis court, newspaper stands and a mess.

Student life
Annually MNIT conducts the MNIT Sports Tournament (MST). Students from all across Rajasthan and other parts of North India, participate in the event. MNIT also hosts inter-NIT sports tournaments being a part of the Inter-NIT sports federation. The institute is the West zone centre for NBA JAM.National level events include Neuron, Blitzschlag, Electronica, Moments, MST, Schrifftum, Taal and Zodiac.

Hostel
MNIT has 10 boys and 2 girls hostels with an accommodation capacity of about 3,000 students. The largest among them is Aurobindo Hostel comprising 950 single bedrooms. First-year students are allotted triple bedrooms and from second Year onwards everyone gets single bedrooms. Most of the hostels are equipped with the mess. Students are given Wi-Fi, LAN, common room, and sports facilities in hostels. Hostel fees in a single semester is Rs. 32,000 (out of which Rs. 20,000 for Hostel mess bill and 12,000 for Room rent, electricity and light bill.

Blitzschlag
Blitzschlag is the annual cultural fest of MNIT Jaipur. It is a 3-day event held towards the start of February every year and attracts a crowd of over 20,000 students from more than 20 colleges all over the country.The word Blitzschlag has German origins; it means a lightning strike. Aimed at inspiring innovation, technical interest among students, and awareness among the public, the event has played host to lectures, seminars, workshops, competitions, exhibitions, and quizzes.
The event is organized by the students under the guidance of their teachers.

Sphinx
Sphinx is the annual tech-fest organized autonomously by Malaviya National Institute of Technology, a 3-day event held in late October each year. The event is organized by the students under the guidance of their teachers.

Creative Arts & Cultural Society
MNIT CACS (Creative Arts & Cultural Society) allows students to exhibit extracurricular abilities.

Student Mentorship Program
Student Mentorship Program (SMP) is a program of mentorship of junior students by senior students. Web based services consist of an The Online Mentor-Mentee platform and SMP Media. Online Mentor-Mentee platform connects mentees with their Mentors, and SMP Media acts as a knowledge sharing platform.

The Mavericks
The Mavericks is the weekly newsletter service, run by a group of students which covers all activities going on on the campus, both academic and non-academic, discussing ongoing placements, internships, achievements by students, events, projects and other happenings on the campus.

Codavids
Codavids is the official programming and coding club of the institute, under the Head of the Computer Engineering Department. It aims to improve the programming culture among the student community and encourage them to solve practical problems through coding, improve their programming skills by taking lectures, organizing Online Coding Competitions (OCC) every month, organizing Guest lectures in algorithm complexity, algorithms, data structures, operating systems and programming in general.

Zine
Zine is a creative group of engineering undergraduates of Malaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur who are together to learn, improve and apply their technical skills to help foster the growth of society and India in the field of technology by using their engineering skills to work on real time problems. It is composed of students from various disciplines working under guidance of Dr. Rajesh Kumar from Electrical Engineering department and various alumni working in reputed firms and doing research in Universities in India and abroad.

Housing
MNIT provides on-campus residential facilities to its students, research scholars, faculty members, and many of its staff.
Hostel rooms are wired for the internet, for which students pay a compulsory charge included in the hostel fees. Most of the rooms in the hostels are designed to accommodate one student and is available after the first year, and there are hostels designed for triple bedding which are leased to students of the first year. Some hostels have Wi-fi networks. There are twelve hostels in all, and each hostel is provided with a common room equipped with a television, table tennis board, and newspaper reading section. Students residing in hostels are issued an advisory code of conduct and ragging or harassing other students, and juniors are strictly forbidden.

Past People
Students
MNIT enrols 710 undergraduates, 500 post graduate and 500 doctoral students every year. The Ratio of male to female students is seven to one. 50% of students are from Rajasthan, due to the home state quota followed by Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, North East and other states in the same order. Students from abroad are from Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Bangladesh, Nepal, Uganda, Sri Lanka and other middle-eastern countries.

Alumni
Alumni-institute interaction is developed and maintained through the Alumni Network and Alumni chapters across the world under the direction of MNIT Jaipur Alumni Association (MNITJAA). It also helps in conducting the annual alumni meets.
Alumni from MNIT contribute to society in various fields like Academics, Science and Engineering, Public Service, Corporate Service, Entertainment, Defence, Arts & Design, etc.

Notable alumni
Thomas Abraham, president of GOPIO
Avinash Kumar Agarwal, Mechanical Engineer, Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar laureate 
Nikhil Gupta, researcher and professor based in Brooklyn, New York 
Ashok M. Raichur, nanotechnologist, N-Bios laureate 
Shivangi, Indian Navy First Woman Pilot 
Ashish Arora, founder physicsgalaxy.com, author of physics textbooks in IIT-JEE Category, works at Unacademy, worked at Allen Jaipur and Bansal classes, founding member of FIITJEE

See also
National Institutes of Technology
Indian Institutes of Technology
Ministry of Human Resource Development
List of Institutes of National Importance
Passage 13:
James Watt
James Watt  (; 30 January 1736 (19 January 1736 OS) – 25 August 1819) was a Scottish inventor, mechanical engineer, and chemist who improved on Thomas Newcomen's 1712 Newcomen steam engine with his Watt steam engine in 1776, which was fundamental to the changes brought by the Industrial Revolution in both his native Great Britain and the rest of the world.
While working as an instrument maker at the University of Glasgow, Watt became interested in the technology of steam engines. He realised that contemporary engine designs wasted a great deal of energy by repeatedly cooling and reheating the cylinder. Watt introduced a design enhancement, the separate condenser, which avoided this waste of energy and radically improved the power, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of steam engines. Eventually, he adapted his engine to produce rotary motion, greatly broadening its use beyond pumping water.
Watt attempted to commercialise his invention, but experienced great financial difficulties until he entered a partnership with Matthew Boulton in 1775. The new firm of Boulton and Watt was eventually highly successful and Watt became a wealthy man. In his retirement, Watt continued to develop new inventions though none was as significant as his steam engine work.
As Watt developed the concept of horsepower, the SI unit of power, the watt, was named after him.

Biography
Early life and education
James Watt was born on 19 January 1736 in Greenock, Renfrewshire, the eldest of the five surviving children of Agnes Muirhead (1703–1755) and James Watt (1698–1782). His mother came from a distinguished family, was well educated and said to be of forceful character, while his father was a shipwright, ship owner and contractor, and served as the Greenock's chief baillie in 1751. The Watt family's wealth came in part from Watt's father's trading in slaves and slave-produced goods. 
Watt's parents were Presbyterians and strong Covenanters, but despite his religious upbringing he later became a deist. Watt's grandfather, Thomas Watt (1642–1734), was a teacher of mathematics, surveying and navigation and baillie to the Baron of Cartsburn.Initially, Watt was educated at home by his mother, later going on to attend Greenock Grammar School. There he exhibited an aptitude for mathematics, while Latin and Greek failed to interest him.
Watt is said to have suffered prolonged bouts of ill-health as a child and from frequent headaches all his life.After leaving school, Watt worked in the workshops of his father's businesses, demonstrating considerable dexterity and skill in creating engineering models. After his father suffered unsuccessful business ventures, Watt left Greenock to seek employment in Glasgow as a mathematical instrument maker.

When he was 18, Watt's mother died and his father's health began to fail. Watt travelled to London and was able to obtain a period of training as an instrument maker for a year (1755–56), then returned to Scotland, settling in the major commercial city of Glasgow, intent on setting up his own instrument-making business. He was still very young and, having not had a full apprenticeship, did not have the usual connections via a former master to establish himself as a journeyman instrument maker.
Watt was saved from this impasse by the arrival from Jamaica of astronomical instruments bequeathed by Alexander MacFarlane to the University of Glasgow - instruments that required expert attention. Watt restored them to working order and was remunerated. These instruments were eventually installed in the Macfarlane Observatory. Subsequently, three professors offered him the opportunity to set up a small workshop within the university. It was initiated in 1757 and two of the professors, the physicist and chemist Joseph Black as well as the famed economist Adam Smith, became Watt's friends.At first, he worked on maintaining and repairing scientific instruments used in the university, helping with demonstrations, and expanding the production of quadrants. He made and repaired brass reflecting quadrants, parallel rulers, scales, parts for telescopes, and barometers, among other things.
It is sometimes falsely stated that he struggled to establish himself in Glasgow due to opposition from the Trades House, but this myth has been thoroughly debunked by the historian Harry Lumsden. The records from this period are lost, but it is known that he was able to work and trade completely normally as a skilled metal worker so the Incorporation of Hammermen must have been satisfied that he met their requirements for membership. It is also known that other people in the metal trades were pursued for working without being members of the Incorporation well into the 19th century, so the rules were definitely being enforced when Watt was trading freely throughout the city.
In 1759, he formed a partnership with John Craig, an architect and businessman, to manufacture and sell a line of products including musical instruments and toys. This partnership lasted for the next six years, and employed up to 16 workers. Craig died in 1765. One employee, Alex Gardner, eventually took over the business, which lasted into the 20th century.In 1764, Watt married his cousin Margaret (Peggy) Miller, with whom he had 5 children, 2 of whom lived to adulthood: James Jr. (1769–1848) and Margaret (1767–1796). His wife died in childbirth in 1773. In 1777, he married again, to Ann MacGregor, daughter of a Glasgow dye-maker, with whom he had 2 children: Gregory (1777–1804), who became a geologist and mineralogist, and Janet (1779–1794). Ann died in 1832. Between 1777 and 1790 he lived in Regent Place, Birmingham.

Watt and the kettle
There is a popular story that Watt was inspired to invent the steam engine by seeing a kettle boiling, the steam forcing the lid to rise and thus showing Watt the power of steam. This story is told in many forms; in some Watt is a young lad, in others he is older, sometimes it's his mother's kettle, sometimes his aunt's. Watt did not actually invent the steam engine, as the story implies, but dramatically improved the efficiency of the existing Newcomen engine by adding a separate condenser. This is difficult to explain to someone not familiar with concepts of heat and thermal efficiency. It appears that the story was created, possibly by Watt's son James Watt Jr., and persists because it is easy for children to understand and remember. In this light, it can be seen as akin to the story of Isaac Newton and the falling apple and his discovery of gravity.
Although it is often dismissed as a myth, the story of Watt and the kettle has a basis in fact. In trying to understand the thermodynamics of heat and steam, James Watt carried out many laboratory experiments and his diaries record that in conducting these, he used a kettle as a boiler to generate steam.

Early experiments with steam
In 1759, Watt's friend, John Robison, called his attention to the use of steam as a source of motive power. The design of the Newcomen engine, in use for almost 50 years for pumping water from mines, had hardly changed from its first implementation.  Watt began to experiment with steam, though he had never seen an operating steam engine.  He tried constructing a model; it failed to work satisfactorily, but he continued his experiments and began to read everything he could about the subject. He came to realise the importance of latent heat—the thermal energy released or absorbed during a constant-temperature process—in understanding the engine, which, unknown to Watt, his friend Joseph Black had previously discovered years before. Understanding of the steam engine was in a very primitive state, for the science of thermodynamics would not be formalised for nearly another 100 years.
In 1763, Watt was asked to repair a model Newcomen engine belonging to the university. Even after repair, the engine barely worked. After much experimentation, Watt demonstrated that about 3/4 of the thermal energy of the steam was being consumed in heating the engine cylinder on every cycle. This energy was wasted because, later in the cycle, cold water was injected into the cylinder to condense the steam to reduce its pressure. Thus, by repeatedly heating and cooling the cylinder, the engine wasted most of its thermal energy rather than converting it into mechanical energy.
Watt's critical insight, arrived at in May 1765 as he crossed Glasgow Green park, was to cause the steam to condense in a separate chamber apart from the piston, and to maintain the temperature of the cylinder at the same temperature as the injected steam by surrounding it with a "steam jacket". Thus, very little energy was absorbed by the cylinder on each cycle, making more available to perform useful work. Watt had a working model later that same year.

Despite a potentially workable design, there were still substantial difficulties in constructing a full-scale engine. This required more capital, some of which came from Black. More substantial backing came from John Roebuck, the founder of the celebrated Carron Iron Works near Falkirk, with whom he now formed a partnership. Roebuck lived at Kinneil House in Bo'ness, during which time Watt worked at perfecting his steam engine in a cottage adjacent to the house. The shell of the cottage, and a very large part of one of his projects, still exist to the rear.The principal difficulty was in machining the piston and cylinder. Iron workers of the day were more like blacksmiths than modern machinists, and were unable to produce the components with sufficient precision. Much capital was spent in pursuing a patent on Watt's invention. Strapped for resources, Watt was forced to take up employment—first as a surveyor, then as a civil engineer—for 8 years.Roebuck went bankrupt, and Matthew Boulton, who owned the Soho Manufactory works near Birmingham, acquired his patent rights. An extension of the patent to 1800 was successfully obtained in 1775.Through Boulton, Watt finally had access to some of the best iron workers in the world. The difficulty of the manufacture of a large cylinder with a tightly fitting piston was solved by John Wilkinson, who had developed precision boring techniques for cannon making at Bersham, near Wrexham, North Wales. Watt and Boulton formed a hugely successful partnership, Boulton and Watt, which lasted for the next 25 years.

First engines
In 1776, the first engines were installed and working in commercial enterprises. These first engines were used to power pumps and produced only reciprocating motion to move the pump rods at the bottom of the shaft. The design was commercially successful, and for the next 5 years, Watt was very busy installing more engines, mostly in Cornwall, for pumping water out of mines.
These early engines were not manufactured by Boulton and Watt, but were made by others according to drawings made by Watt, who served in the role of consulting engineer. The erection of the engine and its shakedown was supervised by Watt, at first, and then by men in the firm's employ. These were large machines. The first, for example, had a cylinder with a diameter of 50 inches and an overall height of about 24 feet, and required the construction of a dedicated building to house it. Boulton and Watt charged an annual payment, equal to 1/3 of the value of the coal saved in comparison to a Newcomen engine performing the same work.
The field of application for the invention was greatly widened when Boulton urged Watt to convert the reciprocating motion of the piston to produce rotational power for grinding, weaving and milling. Although a crank seemed the obvious solution to the conversion, Watt and Boulton were stymied by a patent for this, whose holder, James Pickard and his associates proposed to cross-license the external condenser. Watt adamantly opposed this and they circumvented the patent by their sun and planet gear in 1781.
Over the next 6 years, he made other improvements and modifications to the steam engine. A double-acting engine, in which the steam acted alternately on both sides of the piston, was one. He described methods for working the steam "expansively" (i.e., using steam at pressures well above atmospheric). A compound engine, which connected 2 or more engines, was described. Two more patents were granted for these in 1781 and 1782. Numerous other improvements that made for easier manufacture and installation were continually implemented. One of these included the use of the steam indicator which produced an informative plot of the pressure in the cylinder against its volume, which he kept as a trade secret. Another important invention, one which Watt was most proud of, was the parallel motion linkage, which was essential in double-acting engines as it produced the straight line motion required for the cylinder rod and pump, from the connected rocking beam, whose end moves in a circular arc. This was patented in 1784. A throttle valve to control the power of the engine, and a centrifugal governor, patented in 1788, to keep it from "running away" were very important. These improvements taken together produced an engine which was up to 5 times as fuel efficient as the Newcomen engine.
Because of the danger of exploding boilers, which were in a very primitive stage of development, and the ongoing issues with leaks, Watt restricted his use of high pressure steam – all of his engines used steam at near atmospheric pressure.

Patent trials
Edward Bull started constructing engines for Boulton and Watt in Cornwall in 1781. By 1792, he had started making engines of his own design, but which contained a separate condenser, and so infringed Watt's patents. Two brothers, Jabez Carter Hornblower and Jonathan Hornblower Jnr also started to build engines about the same time. Others began to modify Newcomen engines by adding a condenser, and the mine owners in Cornwall became convinced that Watt's patent could not be enforced. They started to withhold payments to Boulton and Watt, which by 1795 had fallen on hard times. Of the total £21,000 (equivalent to £2,310,000 as of 2021) owed, only £2,500 had been received. Watt was forced to go to court to enforce his claims.He first sued Bull in 1793. The jury found for Watt, but the question of whether or not the original specification of the patent was valid was left to another trial. In the meantime, injunctions were issued against the infringers, forcing their payments of the royalties to be placed in escrow. The trial on determining the validity of the specifications which was held in the following year was inconclusive, but the injunctions remained in force and the infringers, except for Jonathan Hornblower, all began to settle their cases. Hornblower was soon brought to trial in 1799, and the verdict of the four was decisively in favour of Watt. Their friend John Wilkinson, who had solved the problem of boring an accurate cylinder, was a particularly grievous case. He had erected about 20 engines without Boulton's and Watts' knowledge. They finally agreed to settle the infringement in 1796. Boulton and Watt never collected all that was owed them, but the disputes were all settled directly between the parties or through arbitration. These trials were extremely costly in both money and time, but ultimately were successful for the firm.

Copying machine
Before 1780, there was no good method for making copies of letters or drawings. The only method sometimes used was a mechanical one using multiple linked pens. Watt at first experimented with improving this method, but soon gave up on this approach because it was so cumbersome. He instead decided to try to physically transfer ink from the front of the original to the back of another sheet, moistened with a solvent, and pressed to the original. The second sheet had to be thin, so that the ink could be seen through it when the copy was held up to the light, thus reproducing the original exactly.Watt started to develop the process in 1779, and made many experiments to formulate the ink, select the thin paper, to devise a method for wetting the special thin paper, and to make a press suitable for applying the correct pressure to effect the transfer. All of these required much experimentation, but he soon had enough success to patent the process a year later. Watt formed another partnership with Boulton (who provided financing) and James Keir (to manage the business) in a firm called James Watt and Co. The perfection of the invention required much more development work before it could be routinely used by others, but this was carried out over the next few years. Boulton and Watt gave up their shares to their sons in 1794. It became a commercial success and was widely used in offices even into the 20th century.

Chemical experiments
From an early age, Watt was very interested in chemistry. In late 1786, while in Paris, he witnessed an experiment by Claude Louis Berthollet in which he reacted hydrochloric acid with manganese dioxide to produce chlorine. He had already found that an aqueous solution of chlorine could bleach textiles, and had published his findings, which aroused great interest among many potential rivals. When Watt returned to Britain, he began experiments along these lines with hopes of finding a commercially viable process.  He discovered that a mixture of salt, manganese dioxide and sulphuric acid could produce chlorine, which Watt believed might be a cheaper method. He passed the chlorine into a weak solution of alkali, and obtained a turbid solution that appeared to have good bleaching properties. He soon communicated these results to James McGrigor, his father-in-law, who was a bleacher in Glasgow. Otherwise, he tried to keep his method a secret.With McGrigor and his wife Annie, he started to scale up the process, and in March 1788, McGrigor was able to bleach  1,500 yards (4,500 feet) of cloth to his satisfaction. About this time, Berthollet discovered the salt and sulphuric acid process, and published it, so it became public knowledge. Many others began to experiment with improving the process, which still had many shortcomings, not the least of which was the problem of transporting the liquid product. Watt's rivals soon overtook him in developing the process, and he dropped out of the race. It was not until 1799, when Charles Tennant patented a process for producing solid bleaching powder (calcium hypochlorite) that it became a commercial success.

By 1794, Watt had been chosen by Thomas Beddoes to manufacture apparatuses to produce, clean and store gases for use in the new Pneumatic Institution at Hotwells in Bristol. Watt continued to experiment with various gases, but by 1797, the medical uses for the "factitious airs" (artificial gases) had come to a dead end.

Personality
Watt combined theoretical knowledge of science with the ability to apply it practically. Chemist Humphry Davy said of him, "Those who consider James Watt only as a great practical mechanic form a very erroneous idea of his character; he was equally distinguished as a natural philosopher and a chemist, and his inventions demonstrate his profound knowledge of those sciences, and that peculiar characteristic of genius, the union of them for practical application".He was greatly respected by other prominent men of the Industrial Revolution. He was an important member of the Lunar Society of Birmingham, and was a much sought-after conversationalist and companion, always interested in expanding his horizons. His personal relationships with his friends and business partners were always congenial and long-lasting.
According to Lord Liverpool (Prime Minister of the UK),
A more excllent and amikable man in all the relations of life I believe never existed.
Watt was a prolific correspondent. During his years in Cornwall, he wrote long letters to Boulton several times per week. He was averse to publishing his results in, for example, the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society however, and instead preferred to communicate his ideas in patents. He was an excellent draughtsman.

He was a rather poor businessman, and especially hated bargaining and negotiating terms with those who sought to use the steam engine. In a letter to William Small in 1772, Watt confessed that "he would rather face a loaded cannon than settle an account or make a bargain." Until he retired, he was always very concerned about his financial affairs, and was something of a worrier. His health was often poor and he suffered frequent nervous headaches and depression. When he retired in 1800, he became a rich enough man to pass the business on to his sons.

Soho Foundry
At first, the partnership made the drawings and specifications for the engines, and supervised the work to erect them on the customers' property. They produced almost none of the parts themselves. Watt did most of his work at his home in Harper's Hill in Birmingham, while Boulton worked at the Soho Manufactory. Gradually, the partners began to actually manufacture more and more of the parts, and by 1795, they purchased a property about a mile away from the Soho Manufactory, on the banks of the Birmingham Canal, to establish a new foundry for the manufacture of the engines. The Soho Foundry formally opened in 1796 at a time when Watt's sons, Gregory and James Jr. were heavily involved in the management of the enterprise. In 1800, the year of Watt's retirement, the firm made a total of 41 engines.

Later years
Watt retired in 1800, the same year that his fundamental patent and partnership with Boulton expired. The famous partnership was transferred to the men's sons, Matthew Robinson Boulton and James Watt Jr.. Longtime firm engineer William Murdoch was soon made a partner and the firm prospered.
Watt continued to invent other things before and during his semi-retirement. Within his home in Handsworth, Staffordshire, Watt made use of a garret room as a workshop, and it was here that he worked on many of his inventions. Among other things, he invented and constructed machines for copying sculptures and medallions which worked very well, but which he never patented. One of the first sculptures he produced with the machine was a small head of his old professor friend Adam Smith. He maintained his interest in civil engineering and was a consultant on several significant projects. He proposed, for example, a method for constructing a flexible pipe to be used for pumping water under the River Clyde at Glasgow.He and his second wife travelled to France and Germany, and he purchased an estate in mid-Wales at Doldowlod House, one mile south of Llanwrthwl, which he much improved.
In 1816, he took a trip on the paddle-steamer Comet, a product of his inventions, to revisit his home town of Greenock.He died on 25 August 1819 at his home "Heathfield Hall" near Handsworth in Staffordshire (now part of Birmingham) at the age of 83. He was buried on 2 September in the graveyard of St Mary's Church, Handsworth. The church has since been extended and his grave is now inside the church.

Family
On 16 July 1764, Watt married his cousin Margaret Miller (d. 1773). They had two children, Margaret (1767–1796) and James (1769–1848). In 1791, their daughter married James Miller. In September 1773, while Watt was working in the Scottish Highlands, he learned that his wife, who was pregnant with their third child, was seriously ill. He immediately returned home but found that she had died and their child was stillborn.In 1775, he married Ann MacGregor (d.1832).

Freemasonry
He was Initiated into Scottish Freemasonry in The Glasgow Royal Arch Lodge, No. 77, in 1763. The Lodge ceased to exist in 1810. A Masonic Lodge was named after him in his home town of Glasgow – Lodge James Watt, No. 1215.

Murdoch's contributions
William Murdoch joined Boulton and Watt in 1777. At first, he worked in the pattern shop in Soho, but soon he was erecting engines in Cornwall.  He became an important part of the firm and made many contributions to its success including important inventions of his own.
John Griffiths, who wrote a biography of him in 1992, has argued that Watt's discouragement of Murdoch's work with high-pressure steam on his steam road locomotive experiments delayed its development: Watt rightly believed that boilers of the time would be unsafe at higher pressures.Watt patented the application of the sun and planet gear to steam in 1781 and a steam locomotive in 1784, both of which have strong claims to have been invented by Murdoch. The patent was never contested by Murdoch, however, and Boulton and Watt's firm continued to use the sun and planet gear in their rotative engines, even long after the patent for the crank expired in 1794.  Murdoch was made a partner of the firm in 1810, where he remained until his retirement 20 years later at the age of 76.

Legacy
As one author states, James Watt's improvements to the steam engine "converted it from a prime mover of marginal efficiency into the mechanical workhorse of the Industrial Revolution".

Honours
Watt was much honoured in his own time. In 1784, he was made a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and was elected as a member of the Batavian Society for Experimental Philosophy, of Rotterdam, the Netherlands, in 1787. In 1789, he was elected to the elite group, the Smeatonian Society of Civil Engineers. In 1806, he was conferred the honorary Doctor of Laws by the University of Glasgow.  The French Academy elected him a Corresponding Member and he was made a Foreign Associate in 1814.The watt is named after James Watt for his contributions to the development of the steam engine, and was adopted by the Second Congress of the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1889 and by the 11th General Conference on Weights and Measures in 1960 as the unit of power incorporated in the International System of Units (or "SI").
On 29 May 2009, the Bank of England announced that Boulton and Watt would appear on a new £50 note. The design is the first to feature a dual portrait on a Bank of England note, and presents the two industrialists side by side with images of Watt's steam engine and Boulton's Soho Manufactory. Quotes attributed to each of the men are inscribed on the note: "I sell here, sir, what all the world desires to have—POWER" (Boulton) and "I can think of nothing else but this machine" (Watt). The inclusion of Watt is the second time that a Scot has featured on a Bank of England note (the first was Adam Smith on the 2007 issue £20 note). In September 2011, it was announced that the notes would enter circulation on 2 November.In 2011, he was one of seven inaugural inductees to the Scottish Engineering Hall of Fame.

Memorials
Watt was buried in the grounds of St. Mary's Church, Handsworth, in Birmingham. Later expansion of the church, over his grave, means that his tomb is now buried inside the church.The garret room workshop that Watt used in his retirement was left, locked and untouched, until 1853, when it was first viewed by his biographer J. P. Muirhead. Thereafter, it was occasionally visited, but left untouched, as a kind of shrine. A proposal to have it transferred to the Patent Office came to nothing. When the house was due to be demolished in 1924, the room and all its contents were presented to the Science Museum, where it was recreated in its entirety. It remained on display for visitors for many years, but was walled-off when the gallery it was housed in closed. The workshop remained intact, and preserved, and in March 2011 was put on public display as part of a new permanent Science Museum exhibition, "James Watt and our world".The approximate location of James Watt's birth in Greenock is commemorated by a statue. Other memorials in Greenock include street names and the Watt Memorial Library, which was begun in 1816 with Watt's donation of scientific books, and developed as part of the Watt Institution by his son (which ultimately became the James Watt College). Taken over by the local authority in 1974, the library now also houses the local history collection and archives of Inverclyde, and is dominated by a large seated statue in the vestibule. Watt is additionally commemorated by statuary in George Square, Glasgow and Princes Street, Edinburgh, as well as others in Birmingham, where he is also remembered by the Moonstones and a school is named in his honour.
The James Watt College has expanded from its original location to include campuses in Kilwinning (North Ayrshire), Finnart Street and The Waterfront in Greenock, and the Sports campus in Largs. Heriot-Watt University near Edinburgh was at one time the School of Arts of Edinburgh, founded in 1821 as the world's first Mechanics Institute, but to commemorate George Heriot, the 16th-century financier to King James VI and I, and James Watt, after Royal Charter the name was changed to Heriot-Watt University. Dozens of university and college buildings (chiefly of science and technology) are named after him. Matthew Boulton's home, Soho House, is now a museum, commemorating the work of both men. The University of Glasgow's Faculty of Engineering has its headquarters in the James Watt Building, which also houses the department of Mechanical Engineering and the department of Aerospace Engineering. The huge painting James Watt contemplating the steam engine by James Eckford Lauder is now owned by the National Gallery of Scotland.

There is a statue of James Watt in Piccadilly Gardens, Manchester and City Square, Leeds.
A colossal statue of Watt by Francis Legatt Chantrey was placed in Westminster Abbey, and later was moved to St. Paul's Cathedral.  On the cenotaph, the inscription reads, in part, "JAMES WATT ... ENLARGED THE RESOURCES OF HIS COUNTRY, INCREASED THE POWER OF MAN, AND ROSE TO AN EMINENT PLACE AMONG THE MOST ILLUSTRIOUS FOLLOWERS OF SCIENCE AND THE REAL BENEFACTORS OF THE WORLD".
A bust of Watt is in the Hall of Heroes of the National Wallace Monument in Stirling, Scotland.
The French Navy submarine Watt was named for Watt.

Patents
Watt was the sole inventor listed on his 6 patents:
Patent 913:  A method of lessening the consumption of steam in steam engines – the separate condenser. The specification was accepted on 5 January 1769; enrolled on 29 April 1769, and extended to June 1800 by an Act of Parliament in 1775.
Patent 1,244:  A new method of copying letters.  The specification was accepted on 14 February 1780 and enrolled on 31 May 1780.
Patent 1,306:  New methods to produce a continued rotation motion – sun and planet.  The specification was accepted on 25 October 1781 and enrolled on 23 February 1782.
Patent 1,321:  New improvements upon steam engines – expansive and double acting.  The specification was accepted on 14 March 1782 and enrolled on 4 July 1782.
Patent 1,432:  New improvements upon steam engines – three bar motion and steam carriage.  The specification was accepted on 28 April 1782 and enrolled on 25 August 1782.
Patent 1,485: Newly improved methods of constructing furnaces. The specification was accepted on 14 June 1785 and enrolled on 9 July 1785.
Passage 14:
Archibald Barr
Archibald Barr LLD, FRS FRSE (18 November 1855, Glenfield House, Paisley, Renfrewshire – 5 August 1931) was a Scottish scientific engineer, inventor and businessman. He was a co-founder of Barr & Stroud, and invented the Barr & Stroud Rangefinder.

Early life and education
Barr was born in Glenfield House in Abbey, near Paisley, the third son of Archibald Barr, a yarn merchant, and Jeanie Stirrat, Barr was educated at Paisley Grammar School and apprenticed as an engineer to A F Craig & Co in Paisley before attending University of Glasgow to study engineering.

Academic career
Barr first worked as assistant to James Thomson, Regius Professor of Civil Engineering and Mechanics at Glasgow, a post Barr was to attain himself later in his career. In 1884 he was appointed to the chair of Civil and Mechanical Engineering at the Yorkshire College (which became the University of Leeds in 1904).  In 1889 he returned to Glasgow as Regius Professor of Engineering.
In 1898 he successfully campaigned for a new chair in Electrical Engineering at Glasgow University. In 1901 he raised £54,000 to build and equip the James Watt Engineering Building at Glasgow University.

Other activities
Barr was a motoring enthusiast and as a member of the Scottish Automobile Club, he participated as an organiser of Scotland's first motor car reliability trials in 1901.  He also helped to form the Scottish Aeronautical Club in 1909, becoming its president, and was a promoter of Scotland's first aviation meeting, held at Lanark in 1910.
He served as President of the Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland in 1910–11. Barr was also a governor of the Royal Scottish National Institution for the care of those with learning difficulties.
He also gifted £8,000 towards the cost of a new organ for Paisley Abbey.

Honours
Barr was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws (LLD) by Glasgow upon his retirement in 1915.  He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1923.

Marriage
Barr married Isabella Young in 1885.

Death
Barr died at his home, Westerton of Mugdock, near Milngavie, near Glasgow, on 5 August 1931 at the age of 75.

Positions held
President of the Royal Philosophical Society (Glasgow)
President of the Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland
President of the Scottish Aeronautical Society
President of the Optical Society, London