Passage 1:
The Beach (film)
The Beach is a 2000 adventure drama film directed by Danny Boyle, from a screenplay by John Hodge, based on the 1996 novel of the same name by Alex Garland. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Tilda Swinton, Virginie Ledoyen, Guillaume Canet, and Robert Carlyle. It was filmed on the Thai island of Ko Phi Phi Le.
The film was a moderate box office success but received mixed-to-negative reviews from critics.

Plot
Richard, a young American seeking adventure in Bangkok, stays in a drab travelers' hotel on Khao San Road where he meets a young French couple, Françoise and Étienne. He also meets Daffy, who tells him of a pristine, uninhabited island in the Gulf of Thailand with a beautiful hidden beach. Daffy explains that he settled there in secret several years earlier, but difficulties arose and he left. Daffy commits suicide, leaving Richard a map to the island. Richard persuades Françoise and Étienne to accompany him to the island, and the three travel to Ko Samui. Richard meets two American surfers who have heard rumors of the island and he gives them a copy of the map.
En route to the island, Richard becomes infatuated with Françoise. After swimming to the island from a neighbouring island, they find a cannabis plantation guarded by armed Thai farmers. Avoiding detection, they make their way across the island and meet Keaty, who brings them to a community of travellers living on the island in secret. Sal, the community's English leader, explains that the farmers allow them to stay so long as they keep to themselves and do not allow any more travelers to come to the island. Richard lies that they have not shown the map to anyone else. The trio becomes integrated into the community.
One night, Françoise invites Richard to the beach, where she tells him that she is falling in love with him and they start an affair.  Despite hoping to keep it secret, the community finds out. Although he is angry, Étienne says he will not stand in their way if Françoise is happier with Richard.
Sal selects Richard to accompany her on a supply run to Ko Pha Ngan. They encounter the American surfers who are preparing to search for the island and mention Richard's map. Sal is upset but believes Richard when he says they have no map. To ensure that Sal will not tell the rest of the island about the map, Richard has sex with her at her order.  On their return to the island, Richard lies to Françoise about having had sex with Sal.
Three of the community fishermen are attacked by a shark while spearfishing. One is killed and another, Christo, is severely injured. Now terrified of the water, Christo refuses to be taken to the mainland for medical treatment and Sal refuses to allow any doctors to be brought to the island to treat him. As the man's condition worsens, the islanders simply leave him in the jungle to die, but Etienne refuses to abandon him.
When the surfers turn up on the neighboring island, Sal orders Richard to send them away and destroy their map. She tells everyone that she and Richard had sex, which leaves Françoise angry and heartbroken, causing her to return to Étienne. Isolated from the group, Richard begins to lose his sanity, imagining that he is conversing with the deceased Daffy.
The surfers reach the island but are discovered and killed by the farmers. Shocked at witnessing their deaths, Richard smothers Christo to put him out of his misery and gathers Françoise and Étienne to leave the island.
Richard is captured by the farmers along with Françoise and Étienne. The farmers are furious with the community for breaking their deal not to allow any more newcomers. The lead farmer gives Sal a gun loaded with a single bullet and orders her to make a choice: kill Richard and the group will be allowed to stay, or else they must all leave immediately. Sal pulls the trigger, but the chamber is empty. Shocked by her willingness to commit murder, the other members of the community abandon Sal, leave the island, and go their separate ways.
Back in the United States, Richard receives an email at an Internet cafe from Françoise with a nostalgic group photograph of the beach community in happier times.

Cast
Leonardo DiCaprio as Richard, a freelance traveler.
Tilda Swinton as Sal, the leader of the beach community.
Virginie Ledoyen as Françoise, the girlfriend of Étienne, and Richard's love interest.
Guillaume Canet as Étienne, the boyfriend of Françoise.
Robert Carlyle as Daffy, the eccentric former member of the beach community.
Paterson Joseph as Keaty, a member of the beach community who loves cricket.
Lars Arentz-Hansen as Bugs, Sal's South-African boyfriend and the beach community's carpenter.
Daniel Caltagirone as Unhygienix, the beach community's chef who has an obsession with soap due to having to always prepare the fish for consumption.
Staffan Kihlbom, Jukka Hiltunen, and Magnus Lindgren as Christo, Karl, and Sten, the beach community's Swedish fishermen.
Victoria Smurfit as Weathergirl, a member of the beach community whose tightening pelvis has been a sign for rain.
Zelda Tinska and Lidija Zovkić as Sonja and Mirjana, two beach community members who come from Sarajevo.
Samuel Gough as Guitarman, the beach community's residential guitarist who is not a good singer.
Peter Youngblood Hills and Jerry Swindall as Zeph and Sammy, two Americans whom Richard meets in Ko Samui.
Saskia Mulder and Simone Huber as Hilda and Eva, two women who accompany Zeph and Sammy to the island.
Peter Gevisser as Gregorio, an Italian member of the beach community.
Abhijati 'Meuk' Jusakul as the leader of the cannabis farmers.

Production
Ewan McGregor was cast as the main character before leaving due to disputes with the director. It was speculated that Boyle was offered additional funding under the condition that DiCaprio be cast and his character made American. Whilst promoting T2 Trainspotting on The Graham Norton Show, the dispute was discussed in more depth, with McGregor stating "It was a mis-handling and a mis-understanding over the film and it's a big regret of mine that it went on for so very long... and it didn't matter about The Beach, it was never about that. It was about our friendship. I felt like Danny's actor and it made me a bit rudderless." 
Boyle stated, "I handled it very very badly and I have apologised to Ewan for it. I felt a great shame about it and how it was handled."Members of the cast and crew were involved in a boating accident during production. It was reported that the incident involved both Boyle and DiCaprio. No one was injured.The beach seen in the film is not the same as in real life. There is a gap between mountains on the actual beach in Thailand. The special effects crew digitally added some of the surrounding mountains during the post-production phase.
The waterfall scene, where DiCaprio and others jump from a high cliff to the water below, was filmed in Khao Yai National Park in central Thailand, at the Haew Suwat Waterfall.
The map in the film was illustrated by the author of the book that The Beach was based upon, Alex Garland. He received credit for this as the cartographer.
In 1999, Hélène de Fougerolles auditioned for the film but casting directors immediately told her that she was not mysterious enough for the character as she arrived with blond hair in pigtails. She asked them if she could "be an extra or serve coffees there, three months in Thailand, it sounds idyllic!". Although firstly reluctant because the actress was already established in the industry, they finally accepted. As journalists were not allowed to come take pictures on set, the only picture the press could have of Guillaume Canet and Virginie Ledoyen before shooting started was their departure at Paris airport with de Fougerolles. They made it the cover of Studio Magazine, from which the international press reported her as officially cast. This eventually lent her lines edited out of the final cut but present in the DVD extras.

Release
The film opened February 11, 2000 in both the United Kingdom and the United States.The budget of the film was US$50 million. The film opened at number 2 at the box office in both the UK and the US, with a weekend gross of $15,277,921 in the United States and Canada behind Scream 3, and a gross of £2,418,321 in the United Kingdom behind Toy Story 2. Global takings totaled over US$144 million, of which US$39 million was from the United States and Canada.

Home video
The film has been released on VHS and DVD. It was released on Blu-ray in Spain in October 2022 . The standard DVD release included nine scenes that were deleted from the film, including an alternative opening which to an extent resembles the one in the novel. These  were later included in a Special Edition DVD release, along with Danny Boyle's commentary on what might have been their purpose. There is also an alternative ending which depicts Sal committing suicide and everyone loading up on a boat from the raft.

Soundtrack
The soundtrack for the film, co-produced by Pete Tong, features the international hits "Pure Shores" by All Saints and "Porcelain" by Moby, as well as tracks by New Order, Blur, Underworld, Orbital, Faithless, Sugar Ray, and others. Leftfield's contribution to the soundtrack, "Snakeblood", was found to have sampled Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark's "Almost" without permission, leading to a lawsuit; band member Neil Barnes said he forgot to remove the sample from the finished track. The songs "Synasthasia" by Junkie XL, "Out of Control" by The Chemical Brothers, "Fiesta Conga" by Movin' Melodies, "Redemption Song" by Bob Marley, "Neon Reprise" by Lunatic Calm and "Smoke Two Joints" by Chris Kay and Michael Kay were also included in the movie but omitted from the soundtrack. The teaser trailer for the film featured "Touched" by VAST.
The film score was composed by Angelo Badalamenti, and a separate album containing selections of his score was released as well.

Track listing
Year-end charts
Certifications
Reception
On Rotten Tomatoes the film holds an approval rating of 20% based on 119 reviews, and an average rating of 4.4/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "The Beach is unfocused and muddled, a shallow adaptation of the novel it is based on. Points go to the gorgeous cinematography, though." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 43 out of 100, based on 34 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".Critics suggested that DiCaprio's fame post-Titanic might have contributed to the financial success of this film, which came out less than three years after the James Cameron blockbuster. CNN's Paul Clinton said "Leonardo DiCaprio's main fan base of screaming adolescent girls won't be disappointed with The Beach. The majority of the film displays the titanic-sized young heartthrob sans his shirt in this story about the pseudo-angst and alienation of a young man from the United States escaping civilization and his computer-obsessed generation." He agreed with most others that The Beach was "nothing to write home about". DiCaprio was nominated for a Razzie Award for Worst Actor for his work on the film.

Controversies
Damage to filming location
Controversy arose during the making of the film due to 20th Century Fox's bulldozing and landscaping of the natural beach setting of Ko Phi Phi Le to make it more "paradise-like". The production altered some sand dunes and cleared some coconut trees and grass to widen the beach. Fox set aside a fund to reconstruct and return the beach to its natural state; however, lawsuits were filed by environmentalists who believed the damage to the ecosystem was permanent and restoration attempts had failed.  Following shooting of the film, there was a clear flat area at one end of the beach that was created artificially with an odd layout of trees which was never rectified, and the entire area remained damaged from the original state until the tsunami of 2004.The lawsuits dragged on for years. In 2006, Thailand's Supreme Court upheld an appellate court ruling that the filming had harmed the environment and ordered that damage assessments be made. Defendants in the case included 20th Century Fox and some Thai government officials.The large increase in tourist traffic to the beach as a result of the film resulted in environmental damage to the bay and the nearby coral reefs, prompting Thai authorities to close the beach in 2018.The restoration period for the bay was lengthened due to travel restrictions during the COVID pandemic. Blacktip sharks began breeding there again. In 2022, the bay reopened to tourists, under strict protocols of no boats, no swimming and no more than a one hour visit per person for a limited number of visitors at a time.

Portrayal of Thailand
After the film premiered in Thailand in 2000, some Thai politicians were upset at the way Thailand was depicted in the film and called for it to be banned. The depiction of the drug culture was said to give Thailand a bad image and having a statue of Buddha in a bar was cited as "blasphemous".

Possible spin-off
In a 2019 interview with The Independent, Danny Boyle revealed that a television series based on his film has been written by Amy Seimetz. The proposed series is set to take place before the events from the 1996 novel, although it will be updated to occur 20 years later, in 2016.

See also
Phi Phi Islands
Passage 2:
Sylvan Beach Union Chapel
Sylvan Beach Union Chapel is a historic interdenominational church building located at Sylvan Beach in Oneida County, New York.  It opened on July 3, 1887, and worship services have been held there every summer since then.  The film The Sterile Cuckoo starring Liza Minnelli was shot in part at the church.It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2009.
Passage 3:
Spring Lake, Alberta
Spring Lake, originally named Edmonton Beach, is a village in central Alberta, Canada. It is located on the eastern shore of Spring Lake, approximately 20 km (12 mi) and 40 km (25 mi) west of the cities of Spruce Grove and Edmonton respectively. Hasse Lake is located 6 km (3.7 mi) southwest of Spring Lake. It was known as the Summer Village of Edmonton Beach from 1959 to 1999.

Demographics
In the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, the Village of Spring Lake had a population of 711 living in 286 of its 308 total private dwellings, a change of 1.7% from its 2016 population of 699. With a land area of 2.28 km2 (0.88 sq mi), it had a population density of 311.8/km2 (807.7/sq mi) in 2021.In the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, the Village of Spring Lake recorded a population of 699 living in 261 of its 303 total private dwellings, a 31.1% change from its 2011 population of 533. With a land area of 2.33 km2 (0.90 sq mi), it had a population density of 300.0/km2 (777.0/sq mi) in 2016.The Village of Spring Lake's 2012 municipal census counted a population of 614, a 3.7% increase over its 2007 municipal census population of 592.

Services
There is a large RV park on the east side of the lake, which has a small camping store which sells candy, newspapers, and a variety of camping items. Other than this there are no commercial businesses in the village.

See also
List of communities in Alberta
List of villages in Alberta
Passage 4:
Bang Bon District
Bang Bon (Thai: บางบอน, pronounced [bāːŋ bɔ̄ːn]) is one of the 50 districts (khet) of Bangkok, Thailand. Its neighbours, clockwise from north, are Bang Khae, Phasi Charoen, Chom Thong, and Bang Khun Thian districts of Bangkok, Mueang Samut Sakhon district and Krathum Baen district of Samut Sakhon province, and Nong Khaem district of Bangkok.

History
Formerly Bang Bon was a tambon of amphoe Bang Khun Thian in Thonburi Province, prior to the merger of Thonburi and Phra Nakhon into a single province, after which it was a sub-district of Bang Khun Thian District.
On 14 October 1997, Bang Bon was split from Bang Khun Thian and established as a new district. The district office opened on 6 March 1998, the last of Bangkok's 50 districts to open, first established temporarily at the Thepyada Arak Fresh Market building, but later moved to a permanent location on Ekkachai Road.

Administration
The district has four sub-districts (khwaeng).

The missing number 1 is the sub-district that was dissolved and divided into four current sub-districts.

Economy
Agriculture is an important part of the area economy. Among Bang Bon's famous products are Nam Doc Mai mangos, coconuts, orchids, and lotus.

Places
Wat Bang Bon
7th Cycle Birthday Anniversary Park, Bang Bon, otherwise known as 9 Hills Park
Sarasas Witaed Bangbon School
Suksanareewittaya School, formerly and still colloquially known as Suksanari 2 School (shared with Samut Sakhon province)

Notable people
Chalerm Yubamrung – politician
Passage 5:
Poplar Beach Resort Water Aerodrome
Poplar Beach Resort Water Aerodrome Airport was a public airport. It was located adjacent to Poplar Beach, British Columbia, Canada. The airport was listed as abandoned in the 15 March 2007 Canada Flight Supplement.
Passage 6:
Isle of Normandy
Isle of Normandy or Normandy Island or Normandy Isles or Normandy Isle is a neighborhood of North Beach in the city of Miami Beach, Florida.  It is located along the eastern shore of Biscayne Bay.

Geography
It is located at 25.853°N 80.135°W﻿ / 25.853; -80.135, with an elevation 3 feet (0.91 m).

History
After building a chain of movie theaters in Cincinnati, Alsace native Henri Levi (or Levy) moved to Miami Beach in 1922. In 1926 he undertook a 2-year period of 24-hour-a-day dredging to create Normandy Isle from the natural swampy land mass in Biscayne Bay west of 71st street theretofore called Warner-Meade Island. Levy was also instrumental in the construction of the 79th Street Causeway.

Streets
Most streets on Normandy Isle were named after French cities and architectural landmarks.
East-West

Bay Drive
Biarritz Drive
Biarritz Court
71st Street (originally Everglades Concourse)
Maimonides Street
Everglades Court (alley)
Normandy Drive
Normandy Court
Marseille Drive
Calais DriveNorth-South

Brest Esplanade
Rue Vendome
Vendome Court
Rue Versailles
Versailles Court
Vichy Drive
Rue Notre Dame
Rue Bordeaux
Trouville Esplanade
Rue Granville
Verdun Drive

Education
Miami-Dade County Public Schools is the local school district. Treasure Island Elementary School in North Bay Village serves Normandy Island. Miami Beach Nautilus Middle School and Miami Beach Senior High School serve Normandy Island.

Notable residents
Joan Field, concert violinist
Roy Firestone, sportscaster and entertainer
David M. Gersten, appeals court judge
Bob Mover, jazz saxophonist
Clifford S. Perlman, restaurateur
Daniel Schechter, psychiatrist and author
Passage 7:
Stinson Beach, California
Stinson Beach is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Marin County, California, on the west coast of the United States. Stinson Beach is located 2.5 miles (4 km) east-southeast of Bolinas, at an elevation of 26 feet (8 m). The population of the Stinson Beach CDP was 541 at the 2020 census.Stinson Beach is about a 35-minute drive from the Golden Gate Bridge on California's Highway 1. It is near important attractions such as Muir Woods National Monument, Muir Beach, and Mount Tamalpais.  It has a long beach, and the cold water produces fog throughout the year.Stinson Beach is a popular day trip for people in the San Francisco Bay Area and for tourists visiting Northern California. Although most visitors arrive by private car, Stinson Beach is linked to Marin City by a daily bus service, and the network of hiking trails around Mount Tamalpais also reaches the town. The beach is one of the cleanest in the state, and sandy, unlike the rockier neighboring beach in Bolinas.

History
Nathan H. Stinson bought land at the site in 1866.In 1870, the first road was built along the Pacific coast from Sausalito, and a tent settlement sprang up amongst the willow trees at the beach, which gave rise to the town's original name, Willow Camp. The Mt. Tamalpais & Muir Woods Railway opened in 1896, making Willow Camp more accessible. Visitors could ride the train to West Point Inn and then hike or arrange a stagecoach to take them to the beach. In 1906, refugees from the San Francisco earthquake came to the area and built some of the area's first businesses. Stinson Beach became the official town name in 1916, in honor of the largest landowners, Rose and Nathan Stinson.

The first post office opened in 1916.In 1939, the beach was sold to Marin County.  It was transferred to the state of California in 1950, and was eventually transferred to the National Park Service in 1977.
In 2002, a surfer was attacked by a 12-to-15-foot-long (3.7 to 4.6 m) great white shark while surfing off Stinson Beach. The young man survived, but received more than 100 stitches to close his wounds. The attack was the second in Stinson Beach, and the 13th in Marin County since 1952. In 1998, Jonathan Kathrein was attacked by a great white shark while bodyboarding. His injury from the shark bite required over 600 stitches. The surf off Stinson Beach is within an area known as the Red Triangle, where there have been an unusually high number of shark attacks.Marin County added 12 tsunami warning signs to the Stinson Beach shoreline in 2012 to explain the risk to beachgoers.

Geography
Stinson Beach is located in southern Marin County at 37°54′02″N 122°38′40″W, between Bolinas and Muir Beach. It is 15 miles (24 km) by road northwest of Sausalito and 20 miles (32 km) northwest of San Francisco.
The CDP has a total area of 0.89 square miles (2.31 km2), all of it recorded as land.

Climate
According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Stinson Beach has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated "Csb" on climate maps. Like much of the California coast, summer afternoons are often cool and windy (and usually foggy) as winds blow in off the cold ocean.  Adjacent sea surface temperatures are typically in the low to mid 50s F year-round.  It receives more rain than other coast cities in the San Francisco Bay Area in this latitude with 1,034.70 mm (40.736 in) of rain.

Demographics
2010
The 2010 United States Census reported that Stinson Beach had a population of 632. The population density was 433.1 inhabitants per square mile (167.2/km2). The racial makeup of Stinson Beach was 582 (92.1%) White, 3 (0.5%) African American, 8 (1.3%) Native American, 14 (2.2%) Asian, 1 (0.2%) Pacific Islander, 9 (1.4%) from other races, and 15 (2.4%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 33 persons (5.2%).
The Census reported that 629 people (99.5% of the population) lived in households, 3 (0.5%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.
There were 339 households, out of which 50 (14.7%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 134 (39.5%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 14 (4.1%) had a female householder with no husband present, 10 (2.9%) had a male householder with no wife present.  There were 26 (7.7%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 8 (2.4%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 147 households (43.4%) were made up of individuals, and 45 (13.3%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 1.86.  There were 158 families (46.6% of all households); the average family size was 2.54.
The population was spread out, with 76 people (12.0%) under the age of 18, 26 people (4.1%) aged 18 to 24, 117 people (18.5%) aged 25 to 44, 278 people (44.0%) aged 45 to 64, and 135 people (21.4%) who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 54.4 years. For every 100 females, there were 94.5 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.1 males.
There were 773 housing units at an average density of 529.8 per square mile (204.6/km2), of which 209 (61.7%) were owner-occupied, and 130 (38.3%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.3%; the rental vacancy rate was 9.7%.  425 people (67.2% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 204 people (32.3%) lived in rental housing units.

2000
As of the census of 2000, there were 751 people, 374 households, and 178 families residing in the CDP.  The population density was 712 inhabitants per square mile (275/km2).  There were 693 housing units at an average density of 657 per square mile (254/km2).  The racial makeup of the CDP in 2010 was 89.6% non-Hispanic White, 0.5% non-Hispanic African American, 0.2% Native American, 2.2% Asian, 0.2% from Pacific Islander, 0.5% from other races, and 1.6% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 5.2% of the population.
There were 374 households, out of which 18.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 40.6% were married couples living together, 4.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 52.4% were non-families. 42.0% of all households were made up of individuals, and 11.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 1.98 and the average family size was 2.75.
In the CDP, the population was spread out, with 16.9% under the age of 18, 3.3% from 18 to 24, 25.8% from 25 to 44, 39.4% from 45 to 64, and 14.5% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 47 years. For every 100 females, there were 98.2 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 100.0 males.
The median income for a household in the CDP was $87,679, and the median income for a family was $105,827. Males had a median income of $58,750 versus $56,875 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $62,452.  About 3.8% of families and 5.1% of the population were below the poverty line, including 11.8% of those under the age of eighteen and 10.4% of those 65 or over.

Education
Stinson Beach is in the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District, the Tamalpais Union High School District, and the Marin Community College District.  Students in primary grades (K-2) attend Stinson Beach School, while elementary grade students (grades 3–8) attend Bolinas School.  Stinson Beach is in the attendance area of Tamalpais High School, in Mill Valley.

Government
Stinson Beach is unincorporated, receiving general government services from Marin County, including law enforcement, land use planning, library, public health, and code enforcement. Three special districts provide local services.  The Stinson Beach County Water District provides water and septic tank maintenance service and contracts for garbage and recycling collection.  The Stinson Beach Volunteer Fire Protection District provides fire protection, emergency medical care, and disaster management services.  The Marin County Flood Control and Water Conservation District administers programs which aim to mitigate flooding, historically concentrating on issues related to the flooding of Easkoot Creek.

Community organizations
The Stinson Beach Village Association was formed in 1976 to represent the town as the County developed the first Stinson Beach Community Plan. The Village Association's current elected president is village resident Michael Matthews.  Previously, development of the town had been promoted by the Stinson Beach Progressive Club, one of several non-profit organizations that formed the board of the Stinson Beach Community Center.  The other founding organizations were the Allied Arts Club, the Stinson Beach Community Church, The Volunteer Fire Department, and the Parent-Teachers Club.  The Community Center complex on Belvedere Avenue includes the Fire House, which fronts on Shoreline Highway, the Community Center, and the Chapel.  The land was donated by the FitzHenrys and the other heirs of the Stinson families.

Regional recreation areas
Audubon Canyon Ranch
Golden Gate National Recreation Area
Mount Tamalpais State Park
Point Reyes National Seashore

Annual events
On the second Sunday of June, the town serves as the ending point for the annual running of the Dipsea Race, the second-oldest footrace in the U.S. The California Road Club holds its Mount Tamalpais Hill Climb, one of the oldest bicycle races in the West, in early fall.  Since 2002, the race has been held on the third Saturday of the month, with about 400 bicyclists competing in the 12.5-mile (20.1 km) road race from Stinson to the head of Bolinas Lagoon and on to the West summit of Mount Tamalpais at Rock Spring."Cuisine on the Green" is a yearly event held in the town's central park, the Village Green, each May. It features local restaurants and merchants selling a wide variety of foods, trinkets, clothing, art, and novelty items at different booths. Talent local to the area often performs on the small park stage. Cuisine on the Green benefits the Stinson Beach Community Center.
On July 4 of every year, a "tug-of-war" is held with Bolinas across the inlet dividing the two communities. Thirty women from each shore pull against each other until a winner is declared, and then 30 men from each take their turn. It is a slice of life, pure Americana, and always contested both during the actual event and then afterward in the local bars of Smiley's and the Sand Dollar, where the winners' trophies are displayed.

Notable people
Residents, landowners, and summer people important in the development, life, and culture of Stinson Beach.  Arrival or tenure is shown in square brackets.  Birth and death dates are shown in parentheses.

Rafael Garcia [1836–1846], first settler on Bolinas Lagoon.
Gregorio (1791–May 10, 1863) and Ramona Garcia Briones (1793/4–June 23, 1901), received the Rancho Las Baulines Mexican land grant on February 11, 1846; after being widowed, Ramona married Benancio Munos when she was almost 80; when she died at the age of 107, Ramona Garcia Munos was believed to be the oldest woman in California.
Pablo Briones [1837–?], with his uncle, Rafael Garcia, managed the Rancho for his parents, Gregorio and Ramona; trained as curandero by his aunt, Juana Briones de Miranda; settled in Bolinas.
Captain Isaac Morgan [c. 1851–?], purchased the portion of Rancho Las Baulines east of Bolinas Lagoon in 1852; on this property, called Belvidere Ranch and which was to become Stinson Beach, he grew apples, cut wood, built boats, and had a dairy farm; in 1866, as lead partner in the Morgan Land Company, purchased the Page Tract, which ran from Belvidere Ranch to Dogtown and which became the Bourne and Wilkins Ranches.
Nathan and Rose Stinson [1870s–?], established first campground at Willow Camp.
Captain Alfred Easkoot [1870s–], Marin County surveyor; founder of second campground.; member of Duxbury Grove No. 26, UAOD
Thaddeus Welch (1844–1919) and Ludmila Pilat Welch (1867–1925) [1896–1905], American painters
William Kent (March 29, 1864 – March 13, 1928) United States Congressman; donor of the land for the Muir Woods National Monument; owner of the beach and tidelands that became Seadrift.
Newman Lee Fitzhenry (1881–November 20, 1938) [c. 1913–1938], BS, University of Chicago, 1905; married Eve Stinson and pursued real estate and resort development; suicided November 20, 1938.
William Kent Jr., began the development of the Seadrift subdivision in the 1950s.
Mildred Sadler (May 16, 1905 – February 18, 2004) (1926–2004), Principal, Stinson Beach School, 1926–1967.
Landis Everson (1960s), poet and painter.
George Hunter White, also known as Colonel White (1965–1975) (died October 23, 1975), Federal Bureau of Narcotics agent and District Supervisor, retired; OSS Counter-Intelligence Director during WWII; led Project MKULTRA in Boston and Operation Midnight Climax in New York and San Francisco brothels (or "safehouses") until the closure of the San Francisco facilities in 1965; Fire Marshall, Stinson Beach Fire Department
Elmer Collett (1966–present), former professional football player for the 49ers and the Colts
Peter Bishop Allen (November 1, 1943 – June 3, 2004) (c. 1967–2004), sculptor of marine mammals; Assistant Chief, Stinson Beach Fire Department; founder of The Kids Camp nature education program
Steve Miller (1960s–1970s), musician
Jerry Garcia (1970s), musician
Carolyn Garcia, also known as Mountain Girl (1970s), member of Merry Pranksters, wife of Jerry Garcia
Keith and Donna Godchaux (1970s), musicians
Peter Rowan (1970s), musician
Richard Jencks - former President of CBS.
The Rowan Brothers – Lorin and Chris Rowan (1970s), musicians
David Grisman (1970s), musician
George Frayne (born c. 1946) (c. 1973–199), musician (Commander Cody and His Lost Planet Airmen) and artist; Frayne has referred to Stinson Beach as "formerly the grooviest place on earth."
Joseph Esherick (1987), famed architect; designed a home on Sea Drift Road
James Grant (1924–1997) (c. 1980–1997), painter and sculptor; the art exhibit wall at the Stinson Beach Branch Library is named in his honor
Jerry Cebe (August 10, 1940 - Sep 1, 2017), artist (abstract painting; art glass)
Klaus Kinski

In popular culture
Stinson Beach has been the setting and filming location for several movies, including:

Play It Again, Sam
The Fog
Memoirs of an Invisible Man
The Invisible Man (2020 film); this adaptation is unrelated to the novel & film listed above.
Basic Instinct
On The Edge
Shoot The Moon
 The Crazy-Quilt (1966 John Korty Film)
America Is Still the PlaceThe town was mentioned in an episode of M*A*S*H—"The Merchant of Korea".  In the episode, BJ borrows $200 from Charles to wire home to his wife as a down payment on the purchase of a one-acre lot with "trees, the beach, a view of San Francisco...everything!"
George Frayne (Commander Cody) wrote a song about Stinson Beach entitled "Midnight on The Strand". It was recorded on his 1987 album, Let's Rock.
The town and the beach are the topic of a poem by Garrison Keillor. In We Are Still Married: Stories and Letters, Keillor has a four-page essay about his visits to Stinson Beach and how thinking of the beach helps him sleep.The poet Robert Duncan wrote his influential collection Opening the Field at a house in Stinson Beach.Janis Joplin's cremated ashes were scattered along this beach as well as the Pacific Ocean.The story of a young surfer's recovery from a shark attack is the subject of a book, Far from Shore.Author Danielle Steel writes about Stinson Beach in her novel One Day at a Time (Dell, 2009, ISBN 978-0-440-24333-5).

See also
List of beaches in California
List of California state parks
Passage 8:
Garden City, South Carolina
Garden City, sometimes known as Garden City Beach, is a census-designated place (CDP) in Horry County, South Carolina, United States. The population was 9,209 at the 2010 census. Garden City Beach is located directly south of Surfside Beach. The developed part of the beach extends south beyond the limits of the Garden City CDP, into Georgetown County, and ends on a peninsula at the mouth of Murrells Inlet.

Geography
Garden City is located in southern Horry County at 33°35′16″N 79°0′19″W (33.587760, -79.005221). It is bordered to the northeast by the town of Surfside Beach, to the northwest by U.S. Route 17, to the south by the Georgetown County/Horry County line, and to the southeast by the Atlantic Ocean. U.S. Route 17 Business is the main road through the center of the community, leading northeast 10 miles (16 km) to the center of Myrtle Beach. Georgetown is 25 miles (40 km) to the southwest via US 17.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the Garden City CDP has a total area of 5.4 square miles (14.1 km2), of which 5.4 square miles (13.9 km2) are land and 0.1 square miles (0.2 km2), or 1.47%, are water.

Demographics
2020 census
As of the 2020 United States census, there were 10,235 people, 4,893 households, and 2,765 families residing in the CDP.

2000 census
As of the census of 2000, there were 9,357 people, 4,703 households, and 2,873 families residing in the CDP.  The population density was 1,745.1 inhabitants per square mile (673.8/km2). There were 7,995 housing units at an average density of 1,491.1 per square mile (575.7/km2). The racial makeup of the CDP was 97.02% White, 1.00% African American, 0.28% Native American, 0.42% Asian, 0.10% Pacific Islander, 0.30% from other races, and 0.89% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.12% of the population.
There were 4,703 households, out of which 12.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 52.2% were married couples living together, 6.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 38.9% were non-families. 31.9% of all households were made up of individuals, and 15.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 1.96 and the average family size was 2.40.
In the CDP, the population was spread out, with 11.2% under the age of 18, 5.6% from 18 to 24, 21.5% from 25 to 44, 27.6% from 45 to 64, and 34.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 54 years.  For every 100 females, there were 91.5 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 89.1 males.
The median income for a household in the CDP was $34,967, and the median income for a family was $40,403. Males had a median income of $27,683 versus $22,904 for females.  The per capita income for the CDP was $24,062.  About 2.9% of families and 5.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 7.4% of those under age 18 and 3.5% of those age 65 or over.

Attractions
The Pier at Garden City
Formally known as the Kingfisher Pier that was completely destroyed by Hurricane Hugo and replaced, It is approximately 668 feet (204 m) long, with a rain shelter at the end of the pier which includes a bar and nightly live music during the tourist season.

Garden City Golf Cart Parade
The Garden City Golf Cart Parade is a Fourth of July parade that features red, white and blue-decorated golf carts. It has been a community tradition for almost 30 years. It originally started at Calhoun Drive behind Willards Fireworks. After a brief hiatus, it was held again on July 4, 2009.

Weather
Temperatures tend to be in the 80s (°F) during the summer months in Garden City, SC, and in the 40s during the winter. The warmest month of the year is July with an average maximum temperature of 90.40 °F (32.44 °C), while the coldest month of the year is January with an average minimum temperature of 37.30 °F (2.94 °C). The annual average precipitation at Garden City is 54.57 inches. Rainfall is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year. The wettest month of the year is September with an average rainfall of 6.44 inches.

Hurricane Hazel
The worst disaster in the community's history occurred on 14 October 1954. Hurricane Hazel slammed into the community and left only two houses habitable.

Hurricane Hugo
In September 1989, Hurricane Hugo destroyed 43% of the beachfront structures along the coast in Garden City. In the aftermath of the storm, Horry County administrator M. L. Love said, "Garden City for all practical purposes is gone." The Kingfisher Pier, as it was known at that time, was also destroyed by Hurricane Hugo. Reconstruction of the pier began in February 1992. The Pier at Garden City, as it is known today, was fully operational July 1992, and no significant damage has been reported since then.

Transportation
Roads and highways
U.S. 17 Business
U.S. 17

Mass transit
The Coast RTA - Bus system operating seven days a week, 364 days a year. 15 routes throughout the Horry County/Grand Strand area, including Myrtle Beach, North Myrtle Beach, Surfside Beach, Garden City, Conway, Loris, and Aynor.
Passage 9:
Corona del Mar State Beach
Corona del Mar State Beach (Spanish for the Crown of the Sea) is a protected beach in the state park system of California, United States.  It is located in Corona del Mar, Newport Beach, and operated by the city of Newport Beach.  The 30-acre (12 ha) park was established in 1947.

History
The beach had been a surfing hotspot until the late 1930s, when the Newport Harbor jetty was extended, leading to the creation of The Wedge as a popular surf break, but shielding Corona from all but the most southerly swells.Surfing legend Duke Kahanamoku is credited with the first use of a surfboard for rescue purposes at Corona del Mar beach in 1925, when a charted fishing vessel capsized in heavy surf and Kahanamoku rescued people via surfboard.

See also
List of beaches in California
List of California state parks
List of California State Beaches
Passage 10:
Sunset Beach, Oregon
Sunset Beach is a small unincorporated community located between the cities of Seaside and Warrenton in Clatsop County, Oregon, United States. Sunset Beach is located between U.S. Route 101, Neacoxie Lake and the Pacific Ocean.  It serves as the northernmost access to the resort community of Surf Pines, and provides motor vehicle beach access. The "Fort to Sea Trail", which follows the route used by the Lewis and Clark Expedition when hiking from Fort Clatsop to the Pacific Ocean, ends at the beach access. A beach of the same name is west of the community.

See also
Sunset Beach State Recreation Site
Lewis and Clark National Historical Park
Passage 11:
Whihala Beach County Park
Whihala Beach County Park is a park in Whiting, Indiana, United States. It is a public beach with life guards. The beach was previously named Whiting Beach.Whihala Beach is named after the nearby cities of Whiting and Hammond and Lake County Parks Department.
Passage 12:
Oak Street Beach
Oak Street Beach is located on North Lake Shore Drive in Chicago, Illinois, on the shore of Lake Michigan.  One of a series of Chicago beaches, the Chicago Park District defines Oak Street Beach as the area from approximately 1550 North Lake Shore Drive to 500 North Lake Shore Drive, excluding Ohio Street Beach, the South Ledge, a concrete path running from Ohio Street beach to the Oak Street Curve, Oak Street Beachstro Restaurant, Oak Street Beach proper, the North Ledge, and a concrete path running from Oak Street Beach to North Avenue Beach.

History
Up until the late 1800s the Lake Shore sloped from Oak Street to the Chicago river in a much gentler fashion. However the construction of a shipping pier at the river led to a build up of sand and silt just to the north.  As the land rose up out of the water squatters began to take residence, leading to disputes with lakefront property owners.
The biggest series of clashes surrounded a man named George Streeter in 1886. Streeter's boat, with passengers and cargo, became stranded on the sandbar created by the pier. As he unloaded waste and cargo, he created a small island. Eventually he persuaded people to dump more there, and claimed a sizable island. However the city would not stand for it, and after legal battles (some of which included gun fights) Streeter was evicted and the land, which was eventually filled in, became part of Chicago and became known as Streeterville.
Oak Street Beach was formed by sand washing up against the northern side of Streeterville.  Originally, it was under control of the Lincoln Park District, one of several districts in the city that were consolidated in 1934 to create the Chicago Park District.Through the 1960s the sand area of Oak Street covered more than twice the area it does now, and the water was as much as three feet higher than its current level. The beach was popular for residents and tourists as a summer social spot near down town.

Cultural impact
A radio advertisement for mattresses, in the 1970s, featured a child reading a letter he was writing to the Sandman. The punch line was the child asking, "Is it true you get all your sand from Oak Street Beach?"
Chicago pop-punk band Knuckle Puck released a song titled "Oak Street" on their "While I Stay Secluded" EP.
Chicago hip-hop artist Chance The Rapper mentions Oak Street Beach in the third verse of his song, Windows.

Gallery
See also
Beaches in Chicago
Lincoln Park
Passage 13:
Muscle Beach Party
Muscle Beach Party is the second of seven beach party films produced by American International Pictures. It stars Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello and was directed by William Asher, who also directed four other films in this series.
Dick Dale and the Del-Tones and Stevie Wonder appear in musical numbers, the latter aged thirteen and making his film debut, billed as "Little Stevie Wonder."
The movie was released two days after Peter Lorre's death.

Plot
Frankie, Dee Dee, and the beach party gang hit Malibu Beach for yet another summer of surfing and no jobs, only to find their secret surfing spot threatened by a gang of bodybuilders led by the dim-witted coach Jack Fanny. All the while a bored Italian countess is trying to steal Frankie from Dee Dee and, much to everyone's surprise, he seems more than happy to go along with it. Her plan is to turn him into a teen idol.
Due to some razzing from his former surfing buddies and sage advice from wealthy S.Z. Matts, Frankie sees the error of his ways and goes back to his American beach bunny, Dee Dee.

Cast
Frankie Avalon as Frankie
Annette Funicello as Dee Dee
Luciana Paluzzi as Contessa Juliana ("Julie") Giotto-Borgini
John Ashley as Johnny
Don Rickles as Jack Fanny
Peter Turgeon as Theodore
Jody McCrea as Deadhead
Dick Dale as Himself
Candy Johnson	   .... 	Candy
Rock Stevens (Peter Lupus)	   .... 	Flex Martian
Valora Noland	   .... 	Animal
Delores Wells	   .... 	Sniffles
Donna Loren	   .... 	Donna
Morey Amsterdam	   .... 	Cappy
Little Stevie Wonder      .... 	Himself
Buddy Hackett	   .... 	S.Z. Matts (rich business manager)
Dan Haggerty  .... 	Biff
Larry Scott	   .... 	Rock
Gordon Case	   .... 	Tug
Gene Shuey	   .... 	Riff
Chester Yorton	   .... 	Hulk
Bob Seven	   .... 	Sulk
Steve Merjanian	   .... 	Clod
Alberta Nelson	   .... 	Lisa, Jack Fanny's assistant
Amadee Chabot	   .... 	Flo, Jack Fanny's assistant
Peter Lorre	   .... 	Mr. Strangdour

Cast notes
Funicello reprises her character from Beach Party, although in this film (and three others that follow) she is referred to as "Dee Dee", as opposed to "Dolores."  John Ashley's character, previously called "Ken", is now known as "Johnny."Harvey Lembeck's Eric von Zipper character and his Rats gang from Beach Party are absent in this film, although they appear in Bikini Beach, Pajama Party, Beach Blanket Bingo, How to Stuff a Wild Bikini, and The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini. Lembeck as von Zipper (but sans Rats gang) also appears in a cameo in Dr. Goldfoot and the Bikini Machine. Lembeck also appeared in Fireball 500, another Avalon-Funicello vehicle, as an entirely different character. Peter Lorre appears briefly near the end of the film and there is a notice explaining that he will appear in the next installment of the series. Lorre died in March 1964; thus, this was his only appearance in the series.

Production notes
Before production producer Martin Ransohoff announced he was going to make a film called Muscle Beach based on Ira Wallach's satirical novel. This was eventually made as Don't Make Waves (1967).

Novelization
A 141-page paperback adaptation of the screenplay, written by Elsie Lee, was published prior to the release of the film by Lancer Books.

Jack Fanny's bodybuilders
In the above-cited paperback novelisation, the Jack Fanny character (a satire of Vic Tanny) introduces his bodybuilders as Biff, Rock, Tug, Riff, Sulk, Mash and Clod, whereas in the film he calls them Biff, Rock, Tug, Riff, Sulk, Hulk, and Clod.  In two separate sequences, the latter version of these names is seen printed on their shirts.
Larry Scott, who played Rock, was well known in the bodybuilding world at the time and became the first Mr. Olympia. Due to his preference for a piece of gym equipment commonly known as the Preacher Bench, the bench also became known as the Scott Curl Bench. Gene Shuey who played Riff, and Chester Yorton who played Hulk, were also well known in the bodybuilding circuit. Peter Lupus (aka "Rock Stevens") was also a champion bodybuilder himself, holding the titles of Mr. Indianapolis, Mr. Indiana, Mr. Hercules, and Mr. International Health Physique. He is best known as Willy Armitage, the strong, mostly silent, member of the IMF team in Mission: Impossible from 1966 to 1973.

Costumes and props
The swimsuits were designed by Rose Marie Reid; Buddy Hackett's clothes were from Mr. Guy of Los Angeles; and the hat that Deadhead wears was designed by Ed "Big Daddy" Roth.
The surfboards used in the film were by Phil of Downey, California – aka Phil Sauers, the maker of "Surfboards of the Stars." Sauers was also the stunt coordinator for another beach party film that used his surfboards, Columbia Pictures' Ride the Wild Surf, which was released later the same year. Sauers was even portrayed in that film as a character by Mark LaBuse.
The "globe" telephone cover on Mr. Strangdour's desk is the same one in Norma Desmond's home in the film Sunset Blvd.

Music
The original score for this film, like Beach Party before it, was composed by Les Baxter.
Roger Christian, Gary Usher and Brian Wilson (of The Beach Boys) wrote six songs for the film: 

"Surfer's Holiday" performed by Frankie Avalon, Annette Funicello and the cast;
"Runnin' Wild" performed by Frankie Avalon;
"My First Love" and "Muscle Beach Party," both performed by Dick Dale and His Del-Tones;
"Muscle Bustle" performed by Donna Loren with Dick Dale and His Del-Tones; and
"Surfin' Woodie" performed a cappella by Dick Dale with the cast.Guy Hemric and Jerry Styner wrote two songs for the film: 

"Happy Street" performed by Little Stevie Wonder; and
"A Girl Needs a Boy" first performed by Annette Funicello, then reprised by Frankie Avalon as "A Boy Needs a Girl."

Opening title art
The colorful, hand-painted mural that is shown in full and in detail as background during the opening credits is by California artist Michael Dormer, whose surfer cartoon character, "Hot Curl" can also be glimpsed throughout the film.

Deleted scene
Although the end titles provide a credit reading, "Muscle Mao Mao Dance Sequence Choreographed by John Monte, National Dance Director, Fred Astaire Studios", no such sequence is found in the film's release prints.

Reception
John L. Scott of the Los Angeles Times called it "a romantic, slightly satirical film comedy with songs which should prove popular with members of the two younger sets it concerns — surfers and musclemen — and with oldsters who don't mind the juvenile antics." Variety wrote that "the novelty of surfing has worn off, leaving in its wake little more than a conventional teenage-geared romantic farce with songs ... Whenever the story bogs down, which it does quite often, someone runs into camera range and yells, 'surf's up!' This is followed by a series of cuts of surfers in action. It's all very mechanical." The Monthly Film Bulletin stated, "Indifferently scripted, and lacking the brightening presence of Dorothy Malone and Bob Cummings, this is an excruciatingly unfunny and unattractive sequel to Beach Party. William Asher's direction remains quite bright, but that is about all that can be said for the film."The Golden Laurel, which had no ceremony but published its award results in the trade magazine Motion Picture Exhibitor from 1958 to 1971, nominated Annette Funicello for "Best Female Musical Performance" for this film in 1965.
The film was banned in Burma, along with Ski Party, Bikini Beach and Beach Blanket Bingo.

Cultural references
Don Rickles' character name "Jack Fanny" is based on then-popular bodybuilder and gym entrepreneur (and usually sharp-dressed) Vic Tanny. The forename "Jack" might also be a reference to another then-popular fitness instructor, bodybuilder, and gym-entrepreneur, Jack LaLanne.
Julie's remark to an angry Dee Dee, "Have you tried Miltown?" is in reference to the drug Miltown by Wallace Laboratories, a carbamate derivative used as an anxiolytic drug – it was the best-selling minor tranquilizer at the time.
Cappy's Place in this film (and Big Daddy's club in the preceding Beach Party) is a reference to Southern California beach coffeehouses in general and Cafe Frankenstein in particular.
This is the second and last time Avalon or any other "teenager" in the cast smokes cigarettes onscreen in the series – the Surgeon General's report on smoking was released on January 11, 1964, while Muscle Beach Party was being filmed.

See also
List of American films of 1964
Passage 14:
Kuramo Beach
Kuramo Beach is a sandy beach in Lagos, Nigeria, located at the south side of Victoria Island, just east of Bar Beach and south of the Kuramo Waters lagoon. It was the location of numerous illegal shanties and cabins, some of them being used for music entertainment, bars and prostitution. In August 2012, a surge of the Atlantic Ocean hit Kuramo Beach, destroying some of these shacks and killing 16 people. The next day government authorities evacuated the area, demolished the remaining shacks and began to refill the sand.The ocean surge is said to occur every August at the beach, though in former years there were no deaths.Some of the popular hotels to stay are Lagos Continental Hotel and Eco hotels & Suites
Passage 15:
Dillon Beach, California
Dillon Beach is a census-designated place (CDP) in Marin County, California, United States. It is located 3.25 miles (5.2 km) west of Tomales, at an elevation of 89 ft (27 m). The population was 246 at the 2020 census. Dillon Beach was named after the founder, George Dillon, who settled there in 1858. The area includes a public access beach, as well as a private beach resort, the only private beach in California.

Geography
Dillon Beach is located at Bodega Bay (near the mouth of Tomales Bay), at 38°15′03″N 122°57′55″W.The Estero de San Antonio State Marine Recreational Management Area is a marine protected area located 1.5 miles (2.4 km) north of Dillon Beach. Like an underwater park, this marine protected area helps conserve ocean wildlife and marine ecosystems.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 2.98 sq mi (7.7 km2), all of it land.

History
The Coast Miwok people had a presence in the area around Dillon Beach long before Europeans arrived in the Americas. It is thought that a few of their villages lay within the greater Dillon Beach area, including one around the feature known locally as the Sand Point.
In the 1850s, local historical figure Tom Wood operated in the area, employing the natives in harvesting of grain to be milled nearby. He would attempt to ensure that they were not taken advantage of by the British, French, or American traders that would ply the coast. Hides and tallow were traded for various manufactured goods, among them whiskey. Despite Wood's efforts, many of them would fall victim to alcoholism, and while a few claim descent from the local Coast Miwoks, no full-blooded members live today. Tom's Point, immediately south of Dillon Beach on the eastern shore of the bay, is named for Tom Wood, and Wood resided there with the small village he ingratiated himself into.
Irishman George Dillon and wife Mathilda arrived at what is now Dillon Beach from the eastern U.S. in 1868. When his friends and family showed interest in the area, he thought to capitalize on it; in 1888, he built an 11 bedroom hotel, restaurant, and general store. This is the Dillon Beach Resort in operation today. Visitors would explore the area on their way up the coast toward the redwood forests, strolling the beach, fishing, or digging clams from the nearby clam bars of Tomales Bay.
In 1903, Dillon sold out to John Keegan with the agreement that the beach would always be named Dillon Beach. Keegan also built cottages, one of which still stands along the road to the beach. Keegan ran a stagecoach from Dillon Beach to Tomales where it met the train.
Keegan sold the holdings to the California Eucalyptus Plantation Company in 1911. They planted the area with eucalyptus trees, a few of which still stand, but continued to operate the resort, and redoubled these efforts as the eucalyptus crop proved to warp easily and was effectively worthless. Under the subsidiary of the Dillon Beach Company, they operated the resort, ferried guests from the train in Tomales, ran a charter boat, and created Portola Beach, a subdivision along Cliff Street. Try as they might, their Dillon Beach operations were failing.
When regular visitors and Woodland ranchers Sylvester and Carrie Lawson offered to lease the property, the California Eucalyptus Plantation Company promptly agreed. Different portions of the business and land were leased or purchased by the Lawson family, and by 1942 Dillon Beach was firmly in Lawson hands. Sylvester and Carrie's older son, Howard, and his wife, Winifred, owned and ran the resort, while the younger son, Walter, and his wife, Nita, ran the southern side of the property, operating it as a ranch and opening Lawsons Landing on it. The Landing is operated by Walter's descendants to this day as a campground with a store and boating access to Tomales Bay.
During World War II, fears of a Japanese invasion of the West Coast were considered well founded, especially along sparsely populated Marin and Sonoma counties, where enemy forces could conceivably make landfall and prepare for a larger invasion of San Francisco Bay. The military commandeered many cottages and monitored the water from outposts on the surrounding hills supported by ground patrols. The sand dunes on the Lawsons Landing property were also a site for rifle and grenade practice, and the Lawson family recalls at least one instance of an armored vehicle's .50 caliber machine gun being fired around their cows, resulting in a tense conversation between soldiers and ranchers. One soldier reportedly sighted a Japanese submarine off the beach, prompting the garrison to scramble to nearby Marshall to requisition its civilian fishing boats for use in a counterattack, several of which were run by their respective owners. It took several hours to coordinate the operation, and once the soldiers finally arrived at the area of the supposed sighting, armed only with small arms, the submarine had departed, if it had been there at all.
The College of the Pacific operated from 1933 until some time in the 1980s. It stood between Portola Beach and Lawsons Landing, offering a hands-on experience for a small number of marine biology students. The concrete foundation is all that remains today, hinting at what was there before to passersby today.
During the 1960s, Oceana Marin was developed north of town by John Keegan's grandson, James Keegan of Wells Fargo Bank and Henry Trione of Sonoma County Mortgage. Fancy modern coastal houses were built on the hillsides overlooking the quaint town of small cottages, giving it a unique appeal.
The resort, day use beach, and restaurant were sold to Fred Cline in 1990 by the Lawsons. He would sell in 2018 to the group of investors owning it today.

Dillon Beach Resort
Between 2001 and 2018, Dillon Beach Resort was owned and operated by Fred and Nancy Cline of Sonoma Valley, California.  In April 2018, Mike Goebel purchased the resort.
It is one of the few beaches with private (for-fee) access in northern California. 
In California, public access is permitted below the high tide line. The horrible lines of traffic in Dillon Beach are caused by people waiting for entry into the parking lot of Dillon Beach Resort's beach lot. On hot holidays the line can extend all the way up to Elephant Rocks, almost a mile away.

Demographics
2010
At the 2010 census, Dillon Beach had a population of 283. The population density was 94.8 inhabitants per square mile (36.6/km2). The racial makeup of Dillon Beach was 266 (94.0%) White, 3 (1.1%) Native American, 4 (1.4%) Asian, and 10 (3.5%) from two or more races.  Hispanic or Latino of any race were 9 people (3.2%).The census reported that 100% of the population lived in households.
There were 147 households, 20 (13.6%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 79 (53.7%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 6 (4.1%) had a female householder with no husband present, 2 (1.4%) had a male householder with no wife present.  There were 6 (4.1%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 3 (2.0%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 48 households (32.7%) were one person and 26 (17.7%) had someone living alone who was 65 or older. The average household size was 1.93.  There were 87 families (59.2% of households); the average family size was 2.37.
The age distribution was 28 people (9.9%) under the age of 18, 7 people (2.5%) aged 18 to 24, 44 people (15.5%) aged 25 to 44, 127 people (44.9%) aged 45 to 64, and 77 people (27.2%) who were 65 or older.  The median age was 57.4 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.2 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 94.7 males.
There were 440 housing units at an average density of 147.5 per square mile, of the occupied units 125 (85.0%) were owner-occupied and 22 (15.0%) were rented. The homeowner vacancy rate was 5.3%; the rental vacancy rate was 59.3%. 84.5% of the population lived in owner-occupied housing units and 15.5% lived in rental housing units.

2000
At the 2000 census, there were 319 people, 155 households, and 103 families in the CDP.  The population density was 107/sq mi (41.5/km2).  There were 415 housing units at an average density of 140/sq mi (54/km2).  The racial makeup of the CDP in 2010 was 90.8% non-Hispanic White, 1.1% Native American, 1.4% Asian, and 3.5% from two or more races. 3.2% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
Of the 155 households 17.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.4% were married couples living together, 4.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.5% were non-families. 27.7% of households were one person and 10.3% were one person aged 65 or older.  The average household size was 2.06 and the average family size was 2.47.
The age distribution was 14.4% under the age of 18, 1.3% from 18 to 24, 18.8% from 25 to 44, 43.6% from 45 to 64, and 21.9% 65 or older.  The median age was 52 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.7 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.0 males.
The median household income was $47,679 and the median family income  was $52,000. Males had a median income of $40,714 versus $37,083 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $39,475.  None of the families and 1.3% of the population were living below the poverty line, including no under-eighteens and none of those over 64.
Passage 16:
Siddhi Savetsila
Siddhi Savetsila (Thai: สิทธิ เศวตศิลา, RTGS: Sit Sawetsila, Thai pronunciation: [sìt sàʔwèːtsìʔlaː], 7 January 1919 – 5 December 2015) was a Thai air force officer and politician. After finishing his military career with the rank of air chief marshal, he served as the foreign minister of Thailand from 1980 to 1990. In 1991, he became a member of the Privy Council of King Bhumibol Adulyadej. He was the president of the united nations security council in 1985 with Mom Luang Birabhongse Kasemsri.

Life and career
Siddhi Savetsila was born in Bangkok. He is a member of the Thai aristocracy. His father was a high-ranking official in the royal government. His paternal grandfather was Henry Alabaster who was the British consul in Siam during the reign of King Rama IV (Mongkut) and then served as an advisor to King Rama V (Chulalongkorn). His mother was an offspring of the influential Bunnag family. He is a direct descendant of Somdet Chao Phraya Borom Maha Prayurawongse.Siddhi studied metallurgic engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), graduating with an S.B. degree in 1943. During the Second World War, he joined the Free Thai Movement (Seri Thai) which resisted against the de facto occupation of Thailand by Japanese forces. He collected data for the US foreign-intelligence agency OSS (predecessor of the CIA) and was temporarily detained by the Japanese. Two of Siddhis sisters married US intelligence operatives, one was the wife of former OSS agent Willis Bird and one of CIA officer William Lair. After the end of the war, he returned to the MIT and received his S.M. degree in 1947.
He then served in the Royal Thai Air Force and rose up to the rank of air chief marshal (phon akat ek). From 1975 to 1980 he served as secretary-general of the National Security Council. In this position he assisted Prime Minister Kriangsak Chomanan at the time of the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia 1978/79.
In 1980, Kriangsak appointed him minister of foreign affairs. He kept this position when Prem Tinsulanonda took over the premiership a few months later. As Thailand' representative in the United Nations (UN) and ASEAN, Siddhi advocated a tough line towards Vietnam which was occupying Cambodia after 1979. In 1983, Siddhi was elected member of parliament and in 1985 he took over the leadership of the Social Action Party (SAP) following the retirement of Kukrit Pramoj. The party did well in the 1986 election and Siddhi additionally became deputy prime minister for a short time.
In August 1990, the new Prime Minister Chatichai Choonhavan dismissed Siddhi as he sought a more pragmatic relationship with the communist-ruled countries of Southeast Asia. Siddhi's SAP was in great difficulties during the late 1980s and, in September 1990, Siddhi gave up his leadership. One month later, he completely retired from the parliament and the party, stating that he was tired of politics. In 1991 King Bhumibol appointed him to his privy council.Siddhi holds honorary doctorate degrees from the University of the Philippines, the National University of Singapore and five universities in Thailand. He was decorated with the Order of Chula Chom Klao (first class), the Order of the White Elephant (special class) and the Order of the Crown of Thailand (special class), as well as foreign decorations from 14 countries.On 8 May 2000, he was among the five Free Thai veterans who were awarded the Agency Seal Medallion by CIA director George Tenet.
He died on 5 December 2015 at the age of 96.

Honour
Foreign honour
Malaysia : Honorary Commander of the Order of the Defender of the Realm (P.M.N.) (1983)
 Portugal: Grand Cross of the Order of Prince Henry(G.C.I.H.)
 United States: Medal of Freedom

Military rank
Air Chief Marshal

Volunteer Defense Corps of Thailand rank
Volunteer Defense Corps Lieutenant Colonel