Passage 1:
Natural Dam, Arkansas
Natural Dam is an unincorporated community in Crawford County, Arkansas, United States. Natural Dam is located on Arkansas Highway 59, 6 miles (9.7 km) north-northwest of Cedarville. Natural Dam has a post office with ZIP code 72948. The now-replaced Lee Creek Bridge, which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places, was located in the community.The community was named for a natural dam near the original town site.

Notable person
Shay Mooney, half of country duo Dan + Shay
Passage 2:
Yaté Dam
The Yaté Dam is an arch dam on the Yaté River in Yaté commune of New Caledonia, France. The primary purpose of the dam is hydroelectric power generation and it supports a 68 MW power station. Plans for the project began in the early 1950s and the dam was designed by Coyne et Bellier. The owner and operator of the project, New Caledonian Society Energy (ENERCAL), was established on 27 August 1955 to implement the project. Construction began that year and the power station was commissioned in 1958. The dam and entire scheme was inaugurated by Jacques Soustelle, then Minister of State in charge of Overseas Departments, on 21 September 1959. It is the tallest dam and creates the largest reservoir in New Caledonia.While the main retaining portion of the dam is an arch design, it also has a concrete gravity section and an earthen and rock-fill section. The arch dam has a height of 60 m (200 ft) and length of 200 m (660 ft). On its left side adjoins the gravity section which serves as a spillway and is 61 m (200 ft) tall. It is 100 m (330 ft) long. The embankment section located direct the northwest of the gravity portion is 280 m (920 ft) long. Water from the dam is diverted through the hillsides via two 2,600 m (8,500 ft) long penstocks to the power station downstream along the Yaté River in the town of Yaté. The difference in elevation between the dam and power station affords a hydraulic head (water drop) of 157 m (515 ft). Within the power station lies four 17 MW Francis turbine-generates which produce an average of 307 GWh annually.
Passage 3:
Van, Oregon
Van is an unincorporated community in Harney County, Oregon, United States. It is along Van–Drewsey Road about 50 miles (80 km) northeast of Burns, in the Wolf Creek Valley.Van post office was established in 1891 and named for local settler Van Middlesworth. The office closed in 1953. As of 2008, the former United States Forest Service Van Guard Station was for sale.

Climate
According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Van has a semi-arid climate, abbreviated "BSk" on climate maps.
Passage 4:
De Stijl
De Stijl (; Dutch pronunciation: [də ˈstɛil]), Dutch for "The Style", also known as Neoplasticism, was a Dutch art movement founded in 1917 in Leiden. De Stijl consisted of artists and architects.  In a more narrow sense, the term De Stijl is used to refer to a body of work from 1917 to 1931 founded in the Netherlands. Proponents of De Stijl advocated pure abstraction and universality by a reduction to the essentials of form and colour; they simplified visual compositions to vertical and horizontal, using only black, white and primary colors.
De Stijl is also the name of a journal that was published by the Dutch painter, designer, writer, and critic Theo van Doesburg that served to propagate the group's theories. Along with van Doesburg, the group's principal members were the painters Piet Mondrian, Vilmos Huszár, Bart van der Leck, and the architects Gerrit Rietveld, Robert van 't Hoff, and J. J. P. Oud. The artistic philosophy that formed a basis for the group's work is known as Neoplasticism—the new plastic art (or Nieuwe Beelding in Dutch).
According to Theo van Doesburg in the introduction of the magazine De Stijl 1917 no.1, the "De Stijl"-movement was a reaction to the "Modern Baroque" of the Amsterdam School movement (Dutch expressionist architecture) with the magazine Wendingen (1918–1931).

Principles and influences
Mondrian sets forth the delimitations of Neoplasticism in his essay "Neo-Plasticism in Pictorial Art". He writes, "this new plastic idea will ignore the particulars of appearance, that is to say, natural form and colour. On the contrary, it should find its expression in the abstraction of form and colour, that is to say, in the straight line and the clearly defined primary colour". With these constraints, his art allows only primary colours and non-colours, only squares and rectangles, only straight and horizontal or vertical lines. The De Stijl movement posited the fundamental principle of the geometry of the straight line, the square, and the rectangle, combined with a strong asymmetricality; the predominant use of pure primary colors with black and white; and the relationship between positive and negative elements in an arrangement of non-objective forms and lines.The name De Stijl is supposedly derived from Gottfried Semper's Der Stil in den technischen und tektonischen Künsten oder Praktische Ästhetik (1861–3), which Curl suggests was mistakenly believed to advocate materialism and functionalism. The "plastic vision" of De Stijl artists, also called Neo-Plasticism, saw itself as reaching beyond the changing appearance of natural things to bring an audience into intimate contact with an immutable core of reality, a reality that was not so much a visible fact as an underlying spiritual vision. In general, De Stijl proposed ultimate simplicity and abstraction, both in architecture and painting, by using only straight horizontal and vertical lines and rectangular forms. Furthermore, their formal vocabulary was limited to the primary colours, red, yellow, and blue, and the three primary values, black, white, and grey. The works avoided symmetry and attained aesthetic balance by the use of opposition. This element of the movement embodies the second meaning of stijl: "a post, jamb or support"; this is best exemplified by the construction of crossing joints, most commonly seen in carpentry.
In many of the group's three-dimensional works, vertical and horizontal lines are positioned in layers or planes that do not intersect, thereby allowing each element to exist independently and unobstructed by other elements. This feature can be found in the Rietveld Schröder House and the Red and Blue Chair.
De Stijl was influenced by Cubist painting as well as by the mysticism and the ideas about "ideal" geometric forms (such as the "perfect straight line") in the neoplatonic philosophy of mathematician M. H. J. Schoenmaekers. The De Stijl movement was also influenced by Neopositivism.  The works of De Stijl would influence the Bauhaus style and the international style of architecture as well as clothing and interior design. However, it did not follow the general guidelines of an "-ism" (e.g., Cubism, Futurism, Surrealism), nor did it adhere to the principles of art schools like the Bauhaus; it was a collective project, a joint enterprise.
In music, De Stijl was an influence only on the work of composer Jakob van Domselaer, a close friend of Mondrian. Between 1913 and 1916, he composed his Proeven van Stijlkunst ("Experiments in Artistic Style"), inspired mainly by Mondrian's paintings. This minimalistic—and, at the time, revolutionary—music defined "horizontal" and "vertical" musical elements and aimed at balancing those two principles. Van Domselaer was relatively unknown in his lifetime, and did not play a significant role within De Stijl.

History
Early history
From the flurry of new art movements that followed the Impressionist revolutionary new perception of painting, Cubism arose in the early 20th century as an important and influential new direction. In the Netherlands, too, there was interest in this "new art".
However, because the Netherlands remained neutral in World War I, Dutch artists were not able to leave the country after 1914 and were thus effectively isolated from the international art world—and in particular, from Paris, which was its centre then.
During that period, Theo van Doesburg started looking for other artists to set up a journal and start an art movement. Van Doesburg was also a writer, poet, and critic, who had been more successful writing about art than working as an independent artist. Quite adept at making new contacts due to his flamboyant personality and outgoing nature, he had many useful connections in the art world.

Founding of De Stijl
Around 1915, Van Doesburg started meeting the artists who would eventually become the founders of the journal. He first met Piet Mondrian at an exhibition in Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam. Mondrian, who had moved to Paris in 1912 (and there, changed his name from "Mondriaan"), had been visiting the Netherlands when war broke out. He could not return to Paris, and was staying in the artists' community of Laren, where he met Bart van der Leck and regularly saw M. H. J. Schoenmaekers. In 1915, Schoenmaekers published Het nieuwe wereldbeeld ("The New Image of the World"), followed in 1916 by Beginselen der beeldende wiskunde ("Principles of Plastic Mathematics"). These two publications would greatly influence Mondrian and other members of De Stijl.
Van Doesburg also knew J. J. P. Oud and the Hungarian artist Vilmos Huszár. In 1917 the cooperation of these artists, together with the poet Antony Kok, resulted in the founding of De Stijl. The young architect Gerrit Rietveld joined the group in 1918.  At its height De Stijl had 100 members and the journal had a circulation of 300.During those first few years, the group was still relatively homogeneous, although Van der Leck left in 1918 due to artistic differences of opinion. Manifestos were being published, signed by all members. The social and economic circumstances of the time formed an important source of inspiration for their theories, and their ideas about architecture were heavily influenced by Hendrik Petrus Berlage and Frank Lloyd Wright.
The name Nieuwe Beelding was a term first coined in 1917 by Mondrian, who wrote a series of twelve articles called De Nieuwe Beelding in de schilderkunst ("Neo-Plasticism in Painting") that were published in the journal De Stijl. In 1920 he published a book titled Le Néo-Plasticisme.

After 1920
Around 1921, the group's character started to change. From the time of van Doesburg's association with Bauhaus, other influences started playing a role. These influences were mainly Malevich and Russian Constructivism, to which not all members agreed. In 1924 Mondrian broke with the group after van Doesburg proposed the theory of elementarism, suggesting that a diagonal line is more vital than horizontal and vertical ones. In addition, the De Stijl group acquired many new "members". Dadaist influences, such as I. K. Bonset's poetry and Aldo Camini's "antiphilosophy" generated controversy as well. Only after Van Doesburg's death was it revealed that Bonset and Camini were two of his pseudonyms.

After van Doesburg's death
Theo van Doesburg died in Davos, Switzerland, in 1931. His wife, Nelly, administered his estate.
Because of van Doesburg's pivotal role within De Stijl, the group did not survive. Individual members remained in contact, but De Stijl could not exist without a strong central character. Thus, it may be wrong to think of De Stijl as a close-knit group of artists. The members knew each other, but most communication took place by letter. For example, Mondrian and Rietveld never met in person.
Many, though not all, artists did stay true to the movement's basic ideas, even after 1931. Rietveld, for instance, continued designing furniture according to De Stijl principles, while Mondrian continued working in the style he had initiated around 1920. Van der Leck, on the other hand, went back to figurative compositions after his departure from the group.

Influence on architecture
The De Stijl influence on architecture remained considerable long after its inception; Mies van der Rohe was among the most important proponents of its ideas. Between 1923 and 1924, Rietveld designed the Rietveld Schröder House, the only building to have been created completely according to De Stijl principles. Examples of Stijl-influenced works by J.J.P. Oud can be found in Rotterdam (Café De Unie) and Hook of Holland. Other examples include the Eames House by Charles and Ray Eames, and the interior decoration for the Aubette dance hall in Strasbourg, designed by Sophie Taeuber-Arp, Jean Arp and van Doesburg.

Present day
Works by De Stijl members are scattered all over the world, but De Stijl-themed exhibitions are organised regularly. Museums with large De Stijl collections include the Gemeentemuseum in The Hague (which owns the world's most extensive, although not exclusively De Stijl-related, Mondrian collection) and Amsterdam's Stedelijk Museum, where many works by Rietveld and Van Doesburg are on display. The Centraal Museum of Utrecht has the largest Rietveld collection worldwide; it also owns the Rietveld Schröder House, Rietveld's adjacent "show house", and the Rietveld Schröder Archives.
The movement inspired the design aesthetics of Rumyantsevo and Salaryevo stations of Moscow Metro opened in 2016.

Neoplasticists
Ilya Bolotowsky (1907–1981), painter and sculptor
Burgoyne Diller (1906–1965), painter
Theo van Doesburg (1883–1931), painter, designer, and writer; co-founder of De Stijl movement; published De Stijl, 1917–1931
Cornelis van Eesteren (1897–1981), architect
Jean Gorin (1899–1981), painter, sculptor
Robert van 't Hoff (1887–1979), architect
Vilmos Huszár (1884–1960), painter
Frederick John Kiesler (1890–1965), architect, theater designer, artist, sculptor
Antony Kok (1882–1969), poet
Bart van der Leck (1876–1958), painter
Piet Mondrian (1872–1944), painter, co-founder of De Stijl
Marlow Moss (1889–1958), painter
J. J. P. Oud (1890–1963), architect
Gerrit Rietveld (1888–1964), architect and designer
Kurt Schwitters (1887–1948), painter, sculptor
Georges Vantongerloo (1886–1965), sculptor
Friedrich Vordemberge-Gildewart (1899–1962), painter
Jan Wils (1891–1972), architect

See also
Art Concret
Abstraction-Création
Concrete art
Form follows function
Fourth dimension in art
Mathematics and art
Modern architecture

References and sources
Passage 5:
Nieuwsblad van het Noorden
The Nieuwsblad van het Noorden (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈniuzblɑt fɑn ət ˈnoːrdə(n)]; "Newspaper of the North") is a former regional daily newspaper from the city of Groningen in the Netherlands. It was published from 1888 to 2002, when it was merged with the Groninger Dagblad and the Drentse Courant into the Dagblad van het Noorden, which published its first edition on 2 April 2002.
The first issue of the Nieuwsblad van het Noorden appeared on 2 June 1888. Until 1997 its offices were in a 1903 Jugendstil building in the Gedempte Zuiderdiep designed by Gerrit Nijhuis.
During the German occupation in World War II, the Nieuwsblad van het Noorden, like many other Dutch newspapers, published anti-Semitic and pro-German articles. In 1944 they refused to hire a chief editor who was a member of the Dutch National Socialist Movement—at the time the only legal party in the Netherlands—and publication of the newspaper was suspended. The paper reappeared on 26 January 1946, some time after the liberation of the Netherlands, with a circulation of 35,000 copies.
The Nieuwsblad van het Noorden came under criticism in 2000 with the publication of Het Schandaal (The Scandal) by Johan van Gelder, which threw new light on the newspaper's relationship with the German occupiers. The revelations in the book were in stark contrast to the representations of the two owners, the brothers Nico and Jan Abraham Hazewinkel.From 2 April 2002 the newspaper was succeeded by the Dagblad van het Noorden, a fusion with the Groninger Dagblad and the Drentse Courant, which had previously been publishing together. All were published at that time by Hazewinkel Pers (Press). The Nieuwsblad van het Noorden published at midday; the other two were morning papers, as is the Dagblad van het Noorden.

Notes
Passage 6:
Johannes van Dam
Johannes van Dam (Amsterdam 9 October 1946 - Amsterdam 18 September 2013) was a Dutch journalist and the country's best-known writer on food. Van Dam wrote a regular column on food for the national daily Het Parool for almost 25 years.

Van Dam studied medicine and psychology and worked in the newspaper business from 1967 to 1981 (for Het Vrije Volk and Haagse Post), before running a cookbook store in Amsterdam, in 1983. In 1986 he started writing a column on food for the Dutch weekly Elsevier, and in 1989 sold the bookstore and began writing full-time, for Het Parool and the Belgian daily De Morgen in addition to Elsevier. He published a book on food, De Dikke Van Dam, in 2005. He died in an Amsterdam hospital in 2013 after suffering for some time from health problems, including diabetes. His biography, written by Jeroen Thijssen, was published on November 9, 2018.
Passage 7:
Andries Bonger
Andries Bonger (20 May 1861 – 20 January 1936) was a Dutch art collector, as well as Johanna van Gogh-Bonger's brother and Theo van Gogh's friend, who later became his brother-in-law.

Relationship with Theo
In December 1879, after finishing a course at the Amsterdam Trade School, Bonger traveled to Paris to work at Geo Wehry, a commodity trading firm that focused on tobacco, coffee, tea, and rubber. In 1881, he became librarian at the Hollandsche Club, an expatriate club in Paris, where he became friends with Theo van Gogh. He later introduced his sister Jo to Theo; they married in Amsterdam in 1889, but he and his wife did not attend the wedding because he thought the wedding cost too much and they could not afford to travel.Through Theo, he knew Vincent van Gogh, who called him "André" in letters. In a letter that Bonger wrote to his parents on March 31, 1885, he describes Theo van Gogh as having received unexpected news the prior week that his father had died due to a "stroke of apoplexy" after having received a letter the previous day that he was in perfect health. He mentioned that Van Gogh was not very strong, and so this was a very melancholy circumstance. In several letters over the remainder of the year, Bonger comments on a growing appreciation for and friendship with Theo. In 1886, Vincent van Gogh arrived in Paris, which meant that Bonger saw less of Theo. Bonger expressed his concern that Vincent's harshness towards Theo, who had begun to look haggard. Theo met Bonger's parents during a visit to the Netherlands in 1886.Theo had hoped to open a gallery of his own, with his brother-in-law Andries as a partner. Despite promising talks, it never came to fruition.
Theo died six months after his older brother Vincent's death, leaving Andries's sister Jo holding the letters of Vincent to Theo and in control of Vincent's artwork.  Andries believed that his younger sister should not have sole say about what became of these remnants of her marriage and attempted to exert his influence over her. She resisted and the close of the siblings were at odds. Andries managed the sales of some of Vincent's artwork whose sale Jo authorized.

Later life
In 1892, he returned to the Netherlands after taking a job with an insurance company based in Hilversum. Around this time, Bonger started collecting art, especially works by Odilon Redon and Émile Bernard, who were his friends. He also owned works by Vincent van Gogh and Paul Cézanne. He is buried at Zorgvlied cemetery in Amsterdam.

See also
Johanna van Gogh-Bonger
Passage 8:
Indianford, Wisconsin
Indianford (also Fosters Ferry, Fulton Center, Indian Ford, or Morses Landing) is an unincorporated community located in the town of Fulton, in Rock County, Wisconsin, United States, on the Rock River. The Rock River is dammed at Indianford.


== Notes ==
Passage 9:
Navacerrada Dam
Navacerrada Dam is a reservoir at Navacerrada in the Community of Madrid, Spain. At an elevation of 1200 m, its maximum surface area is 93 hectares (230 acres).

External links
 Media related to Embalse de Navacerrada at Wikimedia Commons
Sociedad Española de Presas y Embalses (in Spanish) profile
Passage 10:
ACM SIGGRAPH
ACM SIGGRAPH is the international Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques based in New York. It was founded in 1969 by Andy van Dam (its direct predecessor, ACM SICGRAPH was founded two years earlier in 1967).ACM SIGGRAPH convenes the annual SIGGRAPH conference, attended by tens of thousands of computer professionals. The organization also sponsors other conferences around the world, and regular events are held by its professional and student chapters in several countries.

Committees
Professional and Student Chapters Committee
The Professional and Student Chapters Committee (PSCC) is the leadership group that oversees the activities of ACM SIGGRAPH Chapters around the world. Details about Local Chapters can be found below.

International Resources Committee
The International Resources Committee (IRC) facilitates throughout the year worldwide collaboration in the ACM SIGGRAPH community, provides an English review service to help submitters whose first language is not English, and encourages participation in all SIGGRAPH  conference venues, activities, and events.

Awards
ACM SIGGRAPH presents six awards to recognize achievement in computer graphics. The awards are presented at the annual SIGGRAPH conference.

Steven A. Coons Award
The Steven Anson Coons Award for Outstanding Creative Contributions to Computer Graphics is considered the highest award in computer graphics, and is presented each odd-numbered year to individuals who have made a lifetime contribution to computer graphics. It is named for Steven Anson Coons, an early pioneer in interactive computer graphics.Recipients:

Computer Graphics Achievement Award
The Computer Graphics Achievement award is given each year to recognize individuals for an outstanding achievement in computer graphics and interactive techniques that provided a significant advance in the state of the art of computer graphics and is still significant and apparent.Recipients:

Significant New Researcher Award
The Significant New Researcher Award is given annually to a researcher with a recent significant contribution to computer graphics.Recipients:

Distinguished Artist Award
The Distinguished Artist Award is presented annually to an artist who has created a significant body of digital art work that has advanced the aesthetic content of the medium.
Recipients:

Professional and Student Chapters
Within their local areas, Chapters continue the work of ACM SIGGRAPH on a year-round basis via their meetings and other activities. Each ACM SIGGRAPH Professional and Student Chapter consists of individuals involved in education, research & development, the arts, industry and entertainment. ACM SIGGRAPH Chapter members are interested in the advancement of computer graphics and interactive techniques, its related technologies and applications. For the annual conference, some of the Chapters produce a "Fast Forward" overview of activities.
Listed below are some examples of Chapter activities:

MetroCAF is the annual NYC Metropolitan Area College Computer Animation Festival, organized by the New York City chapter of ACM SIGGRAPH.
Bogota ACM SIGGRAPH has become one of the largest Animation and VFX events in Latin America, counting more than 6,000 registered attendees in 2015’s edition.
ACM SIGGRAPH Helsinki runs an evening-long graphics conference called SyysGraph, which is held autumn every year. The seminar strives to bring the latest updates of the 3D graphics field, demos, animations and interactive technologies. The presentations are held in English.
Silicon Valley ACM SIGGRAPH held "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" Visual Effects Panel with Industrial Light & Magic.

See also
Association for Computing Machinery
ACM Transactions on Graphics
Computer Graphics, its defunct quarterly periodical publication.
SIGGRAPH Conferences
Passage 11:
Communications of the ACM
Communications of the ACM is the monthly journal of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). It was established in 1958, with Saul Rosen as its first managing editor. It is sent to all ACM members.
Articles are intended for readers with backgrounds in all areas of computer science and information systems. The focus is on the practical implications of advances in information technology and associated management issues; ACM also publishes a variety of more theoretical journals. The magazine straddles the boundary of a science magazine, trade magazine, and a scientific journal. While the content is subject to peer review, the articles published are often summaries of research that may also be published elsewhere. Material published must be accessible and relevant to a broad readership.From 1960 onward, CACM also published algorithms, expressed in ALGOL. The collection of algorithms later became known as the Collected Algorithms of the ACM.According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2021 impact factor of 14.065.

See also
Journal of the ACM
Passage 12:
Calamus, Wisconsin
Calamus is a town in Dodge County, Wisconsin, United States. The population was 1,005 at the 2000 census. The unincorporated community of South Beaver Dam is located in the town. The unincorporated community of Lost Lake is also located partially in the town.

History
The town was founded on January 22, 1846.

Geography
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 36.5 square miles (94.7 km2), of which, 36.1 square miles (93.4 km2) of it is land and 0.5 square miles (1.2 km2) of it (1.29%) is water.

Demographics
As of the census of 2000, there were 1,005 people, 379 households, and 297 families living in the town. The population density was 27.9 people per square mile (10.8/km2).  There were 396 housing units at an average density of 11.0 per square mile (4.2/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 97.71% White, 0.70% African American, 0.90% Native American, 0.30% from other races, and 0.40% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.00% of the population.
There were 379 households, out of which 31.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 67.0% were married couples living together, 5.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 21.6% were non-families. 14.8% of all households were made up of individuals, and 4.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.65 and the average family size was 2.95.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 23.2% under the age of 18, 7.7% from 18 to 24, 29.8% from 25 to 44, 26.8% from 45 to 64, and 12.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 39 years. For every 100 females, there were 105.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 110.4 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $50,000, and the median income for a family was $54,107. Males had a median income of $33,636 versus $24,671 for females. The per capita income for the town was $19,818. About 5.5% of families and 7.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 13.0% of those under age 18 and 5.4% of those age 65 or over.
Passage 13:
Andries Stockenström
Sir Andries Stockenström, 1st Baronet, (6 July 1792 in Cape Town – 16 March 1864 in London) was lieutenant governor of British Kaffraria from 13 September 1836 to 9 August 1838.
His efforts in restraining colonists from moving into Xhosa lands served to make him immensely unpopular among the settlers of the Cape Colony frontier. As a historical figure, he long remained controversial in South Africa for supposedly hindering colonisation, and pro-imperialist histories have traditionally vilified him. However his relatively far-sighted and respectful policies towards the Xhosa have increasingly gained recognition in modern South Africa.
On Stockenström's legacy, historian Christopher Saunders concluded: "No man in the 19th century Cape had greater breadth of vision, none gained the respect of a wider constituency, black as well as white."

Early life
The eldest son of Anders Stockenström (1757-1811), a Cape landdrost of Swedish ancestry, he received an elementary education in Cape Town and in 1808 took up an appointment as clerk in his father's office at Graaff-Reinet. En route he met up with Lt-Col R Collins and accompanied him as a Dutch interpreter on a journey that took them to the Orange River and into the Xhosa country. Inclined to pursue a military career, Andries accompanied the expedition sent in 1810 to inform Ndlambe, the Rharhabe paramount chief, of the government's aim to expel him from the Zuurveld.

Military career
In the 19th century, the Cape frontier was afflicted by a recurring series of Frontier Wars, between the Cape Colony on the one side, and the Xhosa chiefs on the other. Stockenström's military career additionally saw growing disagreement between the leadership of the local Cape forces (the Burgher commandos) and the settlers on the frontier who supported greater imperial control.
While the young Stockenström was a great and sometimes ruthless soldier in the frontier wars, in the coming years he came to develop a growing sympathy with his Xhosa opponents. 
The frontier policy of the colonial government at the time was the so-called "Reprisals System", whereby frontier settlers were permitted to cross the border to reclaim stolen cattle from any Xhosa settlement to which the cattle-tracks led – even if the stolen cattle were not in fact there. Stockenström was fiercely opposed to this system. His opinion that the Cape Colony colonists of the frontier were unfairly treating of their Xhosa neighbours led to his later conclusion that a strictly-enforced system of treaties must be enforced on both sides in order for peace and mutual respect to develop.

The 4th Frontier War (1811-1812)
In 1811 he was commissioned as an ensign in the Cape Regiment, took part in the 4th Cape Frontier War (1811–12), and in the campaign against Ndlambe. During this time, Andries served as aide-de-camp to his father, Anders Stockenström.
When his father was ambushed and killed, the young Andries rode from Bruintjieshoogte with 18 mounted burghers. He hunted down and overtook a number of the killers near Doringnek, slaying 13 of them.
Upon returning from Doringnek, Andries was appointed to his father's position in command of the burgher forces. Following Ndlambe's expulsion, he assisted Colonel John Graham in fortifying the Fish River frontier. Governor Sir John Cradock then appointed him as assistant landdrost of Graaff-Reinet, stationed initially at Van Stadensdam on the (upper) Fish River, and afterwards at the newly founded town of Cradock. Andries retained his commission as his duties remained mostly of a military nature.
In a rapid and successful campaign in 1813, he struck across the Fish River against Xhosa tribes that had violated the new frontier, and in May 1814 he was appointed a lieutenant in the Cape Regiment. He rose through the ranks rapidly after fighting in the fourth frontier war.

The 5th Frontier War (1818-1819)
Due in part to overcrowding, a civil war broke out between the amaNgqika (Ngqika Xhosa) and the amaGcaleka (Gcaleka Xhosa). As the Cape had signed a defence treaty with Ngqika, it was legally required to respond to Ngqika's request for military assistance in 1818. Stockenström was thus ordered to lead his commando, as an ally of Ngqika, against Ndlambe's amaGcaleka.
After swiftly intercepting and defeating the Gcaleka army, he withdrew his commando and stationed his Graaff-Reinet burghers to defend the left flank at the Kat River. However, after the Cape withdrawal, the amaGcaleka regrouped in 1819 and this time invaded the Cape Colony itself, attacking Grahamstown.
Stockenström thus took to the field again. He was first ordered to position his Graaff-Reinet commando to meet any attack across the northern section of the frontier. Then while the Cape, Stellenbosch and Swellendam commandos advanced against the main amaGcaleka army, Stockenström's Graaff-Reinet commando was ordered to clear insurgents from the dense bush in the Fish River area – previously regarded as impenetrable. After successfully implementing this supposedly impossible campaign, Stockenström was promoted to captain in the Cape Regiment.
The war ended in October 1819, when Gcaleka agreed to recognise Ngqika's independent leadership of the Western Xhosa, and the area between the Keiskamma and Fish rivers was declared a neutral zone, closed off from both black and white settlement.
From about this period, Stockenström's relationship with Governor Lord Charles Somerset declined, in part because of his "outspoken criticism of Somerset’s frontier policy or his refusal to allow the settlement of the 1820 Settlers in his district and his opposition to their location on the frontier", Duminy suggests, and in part because of a quarrel with the Governor's son, Col. Henry Somerset. In addition, Stockenström was friendly with Acting Governor Sir Rufane Donkin, and since Grahamstown editor Robert Godlonton was a staunch supporter of Col. Somerset, this "meant that the remainder of his public career was characterized by personal and political feuds".
His military career ended in July 1820 when he was transferred to the Corsican Rangers.
The Graaff-Reinet district's involvement with the frontier was also reduced by the creation in 1821 of the separate district of Albany (out of Uitenhage) and in 1826 of the district of Somerset East (out of Graaff-Reinet). However Stockenström remained landdrost until the reform of 1828 which abolished his office.
In his final year as landdrost, he played a significant role in the Cape by lobbying for Ordinance 50 (1828) to grant the right to own land to the Khoikhoi and all other free black inhabitants of the Cape. A project that led to his later establishing of the Kat River Khoi Settlement.

Commissioner-General for the Eastern Province (1829-1833)
In 1827 the Council of Advice was enlarged to include two unofficial members, and in June that year Stockenström was appointed to fill one of these positions. 
Early in 1829 Major-General Richard Bourke, who had arrived in the colony in 1826 as lieutenant-governor of the Eastern Province, but instead became acting governor when Lord Charles Somerset departed, appointed Stockenström to the new post of commissioner-general for the Eastern Province.

The Kat River Khoi Settlement
In spite of the many political hindrances to his actions, Stockenström nonetheless set to work to reach an agreement for peace on the frontier and to stabilise the Ceded Territory between the Fish and Keiskamma rivers.
He decided to set aside this extensive and very fertile area for settlement, not by the white settlers of the frontier, but by the Cape's extensive Khoi and Griqua population. Some of Stockenström's top commanders were Khoi; he had long fought alongside Khoi soldiers in the frontier wars, and claimed to hold their bravery and loyalty in high esteem. He granted this displaced and marginalised people full and equal rights of land ownership and facilitated the establishment of their settlement, in what became known as the "Kat River Khoi Settlement".The dense settlements thrived and expanded, and the Kat River Settlement quickly became a large, peaceful and successful region of the Cape that subsisted more or less autonomously from the rest of the country. Stockenström was later to regard the creation of this settlement as his proudest achievement.

Frontier policy
Cattle raiding across the frontier, by both sides, was a persistent cause for frontier violence. For this reason, Stockenström promulgated new regulations dealing with the recovery of stolen stock. The previous "Reprisals System" of the frontier meant that the reaction to a cattle raid was simply to launch a counter-raid. Stockenström ruled that armed parties were only permitted to cross the frontier and recover stolen stock by force if the civil authorities gave permission.
This policy nonetheless proved to be very problematic because, when deciding whether to authorise punitive action, Stockenström depended on information from sources which were often unreliable. 
In 1830 Stockenström permitted settlers to launch a punitive expedition against Tyali, having been shown evidence that this Xhosa chief was led raids across the border. However, the expedition resulted in the shooting of another chief, Zeko, which caused considerable controversy. Based on false information, Stockenström had at first commended Field Commandant Erasmus for his conduct, but later investigations showed that reports of Zeko being armed and removing livestock were false.
Faced with growing demands for punitive expeditions, Stockenström became increasingly suspicious of the motives of Col Somerset and the frontier settler group. The issue became critical in June 1831, when the colonial government directly authorised Somerset to launch an attack on the Xhosa, without Stockenström's permission and in spite of his objections.
Stockenström became increasingly critical of the frontier policy implemented, both in his reports from Graaff-Reinet and in the proceedings of the Council of Advice. After Lord Stanley, Secretary for the Colonies, requested his resignation from the council, Stockenström left the Cape in 1833 and traveled to London where he resigned as Commissioner-General, after having failed to persuade the Colonial Office to give him more independence in his frontier work.
He moved from London to Sweden – his ancestral home – in 1834 and, at roughly the same time, the Sixth Frontier War broke out in the Cape.

Lieutenant-Governor of the Eastern Province (1836-1838)
In August 1835 he travelled to London to give evidence to the House of Commons on relations with the Xhosa in Southern Africa. In a hugely influential testimony, he blamed imperial policies and the frontier settlers' behaviour for causing repeated outbreaks of war with the Xhosa. In particular, the settlers' use of raids into Xhosa territory, to attack suspected cattle thieves.
His opinions – though hugely controversial – impressed the new Secretary for the Colonies, Lord Glenelg, who appointed him Lieutenant-Governor of the Eastern Province.

New frontier policy
As lieutenant-governor, Stockenström now had the ability to construct a completely new policy for Cape-Xhosa relations.
He began by returning the recently annexed "Province of Queen Adelaide" to the Xhosa. He then instituted his own unique treaty system, recognising the Xhosa chiefs as independent and equal authorities in his diplomacy.
This system involved the exchange of diplomatic agents as reliable "ambassadors" between the Cape Colony and the Xhosa chiefs. The diplomatic agent system was underlain by formal treaties to guard the border and return any stolen cattle from either side. Importantly, Stockenström forbade colonial expansion into Xhosa land. With this key provision, the treaty system soon brought a degree of peace to the frontier.In his frontier policy, Stockenström was also in disagreement with the liberals and philanthropists of the Cape, in that he believed that the authority of the chiefs must be preserved, and that the relations of the borderlands needed to be strictly regulated and policed.

Legal pressure and decline of the treaty system
However many frontier colonists resented Stockenström's restrictions on their expansion into Xhosa land. 
The Eastern Cape settler movement, which advocated dismantling Stockenström's treaty system and annexing the Xhosa land, was led by Godlonton and Col Somerset. This movement increasingly conducted a virulent and libellous campaign against Stockenström and his treaty system.
Godlonton had control of the most influential newspapers of the frontier region, and used them to advocate for his campaign. Godlonton also used his considerable influence in the religious institutions of the 1820 settlers to drive his opinions, declaring that the settlers were "selected by God himself to colonize Kaffraria".Officially, Stockenström was also beset by the problem that, as lieutenant-governor, he was still legally dependent on Sir Benjamin d’Urban, the overall Governor of the Cape, who resented the fact that he had been overlooked when the British parliament authorised Stockenström to take over the frontier. An additional problem was that he also still lacked authority over the military.
Under immense pressure from the frontier settlers' press campaign, Stockenström became increasingly drawn into a series of bitter legal battles. In February 1838 he started a libel action, after being publicly accused of murder, and requested the new governor, Sir George Napier, to launch a full inquiry. Stockenström was exonerated by the court of inquiry in June 1838, but nonetheless felt his position hopeless, and travelled to Britain to consult Glenelg. Glenelg refused to accept Stockenström's resignation, but his successor, Lord Normanby, dismissed Stockenström in August 1839.
Dispirited, Stockenström returned to the Cape in May 1840 and retired to his farm Klipkraal (in the Swaershoek Valley near Somerset East), making only occasional trips to Uitenhage and Cape Town.
In 1842, a severe drought effected the region, causing an increasing in cross-border cattle raiding. This, together with the growing neglect of Stockenström's treaty system, began to lead to growing violence along the frontier.
In 1844, the new governor of the Cape, Sir Peregrine Maitland, abolished Stockenström's treaty system altogether, imposing instead a unilateral system of more severe treaties. Certain provisions of the new treaty system, such as those allowing frontier settlers to counter-raid their Xhosa neighbours if they believed that cattle had been stolen, led to a sharp increase in violence. Maitland's system also involved building a system of military fortifications on Xhosa lands so as to secure the frontier militarily.
The new governor also began to settle Mfengu in frontier Xhosa territory, and opened parts of it up for permanent white settlement.
Aware of impending war, in 1845 Stockenström moved to his farm Maasström, at the foot of the Kaga Mountains, where he remained until April 1846 when the Seventh Frontier War broke out.

The 7th Frontier War (1846-1847)
When the Seventh Frontier War (the "Amatola War") erupted, the conventional imperial troops soon suffered setbacks in the rough frontier terrain. Their long troop columns were slow and easily ambushed by the elusive Xhosa gunmen. 
Faced with increasing losses and a full-scale invasion of the Xhosa armies across the frontier, the British Governor Sir Peregrine Maitland called upon the local Cape Burgher Commandos. The Cape burghers were mounted frontier gunmen, recruited locally from Boer, Mfengu, settler, Khoikhoi and Griqua populations, and fiercely loyal to Stockenström. They objected to serving under an imperial commander, so Governor Maitland promoted Stockenström to colonel, so as to place him in command of the local mixed commandos.

Stockenström's burgher force first cleared the south-western part of the Eastern Province up to the Fish River, inflicting a string of defeats on the amaNgqika, and then advanced to Fort Beaufort, where it was initially ordered that he would invade the Xhosa country. Instead of launching a military invasion to destroy the Xhosa armies, Stockenström selected a small group of his mounted commandos, crossed the Colony's border and rapidly rode deep into the Transkei Xhosa heartland, directly towards the kraal of Sarhili ("Kreli"), the paramount chief of all the Xhosa. Due in part to the speed of their approach, they were barely engaged by Xhosa forces and rode directly into Sarhili's capital.
Paramount Chief Sarhili and his generals agreed to meet Stockenström (with his commandants Groepe, Molteno and Brownlee), unarmed, on a nearby mountain ridge. The meeting was initially tense - the fathers of both Sarhili and Stockenström had been killed whilst unarmed. Both men were also veterans of several frontier wars against each other and, while they treated each other with extreme respect, Stockenström nonetheless made the extreme demand that Sarhili assume responsibility for any future Ngqika attacks.  After protracted negotiations, Sarhili agreed to return any raided cattle & other property and to relinquish claims to the Ngqika land west of the Kei. He also promised to use his limited authority over the frontier Ngqika to restrain cross-border attacks. 
A treaty was signed and the commandos departed on good terms.However, Governor Maitland rejected the treaty and sent an insulting letter back to the Xhosa paramount-chief, demanding greater acts of submission and servility. Furious, Stockenstrom and his local commandos resigned and departed from the war, leaving the imperial troops and the Xhosa - both starving and afflicted by fever - to a long, drawn-out war of attrition.Andries, his health ruined by this expedition (he remained in poor health the rest of his life), called on the British government to institute an inquiry into the war, maintaining that it had been prolonged needlessly but the new governor, Sir Harry Smith, ostentatiously blamed the Stockenström treaty system for being the cause of the war. In a meeting with the Xhosa chiefs, the Governor famously tore up a piece of paper in front of the chiefs and announced: "No more treaties". Historian Piers Brendon described "Smith, placing his foot on the neck of the Xhosan ruler and proclaiming, 'I am your Paramount Chief, and the Kaffirs are my dogs!'"Sir Andries publicly condemned Governor Smith's policies, and warned that they would precipitate a further crisis, but Earl Grey, the Secretary for the Colonies, declined to take action.

Political career
Campaign for Representative Government
Stockenström's response to what he perceived as the incompetence of direct imperial control was to back calls for the Cape Colony to get greater local control over its affairs, through the institution of elected representative government. Stockenström was created a baronet in 1849, and used his military pension to support his drive for an elected parliament.
When Governor Smith called an election in 1850 (the only one of its kind) to get around the difficulty of finding suitable people to serve on the legislative council, Sir Andries received the most votes cast for any candidate from the Eastern Province. However, Robert Godlonton led several Legislative Council members in denying that the elections represented popular opinion, and Sir Andries and the other popularly elected members resigned in September.
In 1851 he and John Fairbairn travelled to Britain in the hope of persuading the British government to introduce representative government in the Cape. But as a result of his call for an inquiry into Governor Harry Smith's policies, Sir Andries was in turn made the scapegoat for their failure, and was additionally blamed for the Kat River rebellion during the Eighth Frontier War of 1850. 
Instead of a commission of inquiry, a select committee was appointed. Duminy writes that it "neither recommended an inquiry nor prepared a report".
During his absence, his opponents destroyed his farm, Maasström, in 1851.

Member of Parliament
Representative government was nonetheless instituted in 1853, and Sir Andries was approached to run for election to the new Cape Parliament to represent the Eastern Divisions. To meet the expenses of the campaign and of the destruction of his property, he arranged for the subdivision of a part of Maasström (one-third of the 4 985 morgen) as a township, which was named Bedford, after Sir Andries's friend, the 8th Duke of Bedford.
Following a heated electoral campaign, Sir Andries defeated his old enemy, Godlonton – despite renewed publication of all the old accusations against him in Godlonton's newspaper, the Graham's Town Journal.
As a member of the Cape legislative council, Sir Andries piloted the passage of the Divisional Councils Act, which in his view restored a link between the government and the governed, which had been broken in 1828 (with the abolition of landdrosts). He also supported the passing of the Burgher Force Bill, which placed the local Cape commandos on an equal footing with the already-established military carrison.
In one of his final political acts, he gave his support to the infant movement for "Responsible Government" in the Cape, as a way to curtail what he saw as the ineptitude of direct imperial control in Southern Africa.In other respects, he was frustrated. The Khoikhoi settlement on the Kat River was broken up, and little was done to rein in frontier warmongers and land speculators.

Retirement and later life
Failing health saw him resign his seat in March 1856, and he left the colony the following month. He lived for a while in Nice, Naples and England, returned to the Cape in 1860, and again went to London in 1862, where he would die in 1864 aged 71 of bronchitis that had plagued him for years. He was interred in Kensal Green Cemetery, London.

Family
Anders Andersen Stockenström (*1707 †1764), inspector of mines and mayor of Filipstad x Caterina Margarita Ekman (*1723).

Anders Stockenström *6 January 1757 Filipstad in Värmland, Sweden x 1 June 1786 Maria Geertruyda Broeders (baptised 11 March 1764), daughter of Peter Caspar Brodersen (or Broders), from Rantrum, a North Frisian town in Schleswig, and Elsabe Cornelia Colijn. The couple had four sons and four daughters.
Sir Andries Stockenström, 1st baronet x 8 December 1828 Elsabe Helena Maasdorp (1808-1889), daughter of Gijsbert Henry Maasdorp. The couple had six children, of whom the firstborn died as a baby.
Sir Gijsbert Henry Stockenström (1841-1912), 2nd baronet - no issue
Elizabeth Maria Henrietta Stockenström x 1852 farmer and politician Charles William Hutton (13 July 1826 – 1 February 1905), who in 1887 edited Sir Andries's autobiography in two volumes, and was Cape Colony treasurer from 1881 to 1884.
Ella Elizabeth Hutton *1 February 1853 x Christian Maasdorp - 6 children
Andries Stockenström Hutton x Blanche Giddy
Charles Henry Hutton d.1897 x Elizabeth Leonard - 3 children
Edward Drummond Hutton d.1941 x Sara Maria Nel - 2 children
Maria Susanna Stockenström d.1870 x 1864 Sir Sidney Godolphin Alexander Shippard (1838/40-1902), lawyer and administrator
Justice Andries Stockenström (22 April 1844 – 22 March 1880) x 24 December 1867 Maria Henrietta Hartzenberg, of Graaff-Reinet
Sir Andries Stockenström, 3rd baronet (1868-1922)(only son), advocate of the Transvaal Supreme Court and a member of the Transvaal and Union parliaments.
Sir Anders Johan Booysen Stockenström, 4th baronet (1908-1957)
Andrée Mabel Stockenström (only child, owner of Maasström) x Gardiner

Anders Stockenström
In September 1781 Anders Stockenström sailed from Texel as a quarter-gunner aboard a VOC ship, 't Zeepaard.
Scurvy broke out in the fleet when it reached the Equator, and when it reached Table Bay in December 1782, 1,202 of the 2,753 passengers and crew had died, and 915 were ill. Four of the most heavily armed ships, including 't Zeepaard, sailed for Batavia, after four weeks, to assist in defence of the city against an expected British attack. It is not known whether Anders sailed with the fleet, but two years later he was working as an assistant in the goods office in Cape Town, where he remained for some years. He also served on a vessel carrying slaves for the VOC from Madagascar to the Cape, and was afterwards, until 1795 with the British occupation of the Cape, bookkeeper to the fleet. In March 1796 General J H Craig appointed Anders secretary to Landdrost A A Faure, of Swellendam.
Following the takeover of the Cape by the Batavian Republic, Anders was appointed landdrost of Graaff-Reinet by both Governor Jan Willem Janssens and Commissioner-General Jacob Abraham Uitenhage de Mist. The latter swore him in on 14 February 1804, at which time Graaff-Reinet had been without a permanent landdrost since 1801.
During his eight years as landdrost – under Batavian rule until 1806, and then under British rule – the district experienced Bushman raids in the north and north-west, and an unsettled frontier with the amaXhosa. Public buildings were in need of restoration following the Khoikhoi/Xhosa invasion of 1802-03 (the Third Frontier War). While commandos were sent against the Bushmen, Anders also tried to reconcile the Bushmen by having game shot for them, and periodically giving them cattle.
When steps were eventually taken against the Xhosa in December 1811, Anders, in command of the burghers of Graaff-Reinet, occupied Bruintjieshoogte to protect the area north of the Zuurberg. The commandos of George, Uitenhage and Swellendam, together with the Cape Regiment, gathered at the Sundays River mouth and after Christmas, crossed the river to drive the Xhosa from the Addo bush.
On 27 December Col John Graham of Fintry sent orders to Stockenström to join the rest of the force at Coerney, where Col J G Cuyler (landdrost of Uitenhage) was in charge. Realising that this would leave the area north of the Zuurberg vulnerable to Xhosa attack, Anders went to discuss the matter with Graham.
He set out at sunset on 29 December 1811 with 24 men. About five hours later he encountered a number of Xhosa of the Imidange clan under Kasa on Doringnek, the watershed between the White and Coerney rivers, on the Zuurberg.
Relying on his popularity as the friend and benefactor of both colonists and indigenous peoples, Anders dismounted and went to meet the war party unarmed. He spent at least half an hour endeavouring to persuade Kasa to return to their country without bloodshed but when he returned to mount his horse, the Imidange had surrounded his party and attacked, killing eight burghers and an interpreter. Four were wounded but managed to escape.

Sir Gijsbert Henry Stockenström
Sir Andries's eldest surviving son (*1841 †1912) succeeded him as baronet and was a member of the Cape Legislative Council from 1891 to 1910. Sir Gijsbert died without issue, and the title passed to the offspring of his younger brother, also named Andries.

Justice Andries Stockenström
Justice Andries Stockenström (22 April 1844 Graaff-Reinet - 22 March 1880 Swellendam), second son of Sir Andries Stockenström (1st Baronet), was an influential judge and the Attorney-General of the Cape Colony.
His child, Andries (1868-1922), became the third and penultimate Stockenström baronet in 1912.

Notes and references
Further reading
Hutton, C. W. (1964). The Autobiography of the Late Sir Andries Stockenström, Bart, Sometime Lieutenant-governor of the Eastern Province of the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope. C. Struik.

External links
eggsa.org
geocities.com (Archived 2009-10-25)
Passage 14:
Vancouver Courier
The Vancouver Courier was a Canadian semi-weekly local newspaper published in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, by the Van-Net chain owned by Glacier Media Group. In 2007, it was Canada's largest distributed community newspaper, with a weekly distribution of 265,000. The circulation estimate included the Vancouver Courier, the Vancouver Courier Downtown, and the Vancouver Courier Westside, along with the Vancouver Courier Eastside on Wednesdays.
Delivered to homes, the paper is distributed from UBC to the Vancouver proper boundary at Boundary Road.The newspaper began as an independent in 1908 as the Eburne News. From the late 90s to 2007, it had several owners: first, the national Southam Inc. chain, then Hollinger, CanWest, Postmedia, and finally Glacier Media. It expanded from being a neighbourhood newspaper to its current citywide circulation area after acquiring the Vancouver Echo and the West End Times.The paper was twice named "Best Community Newspaper in BC" and was the second runner-up in the Canadian Community Newspaper Association's general excellence competition.Unlike most community newspapers, which feature several news stories on their front pages, the Courier's Friday front page featured a single, lengthy feature that ran over several pages. The paper also frequently published material on local Vancouver history, usually written by Lisa Smedman. Columnists included Geoff Olson, Allen Garr, Fiona Hughes, and Keith Baldrey. The poet Earle Birney worked at the paper in the mid-1920s as a summer reporter and editor.
In April 2020, the Courier announced that they had ceased publication until further notice due to a lack of advertising revenue associated with lower business activity during the COVID-19 pandemic. In September 2020, this temporary publication halt was made permanent.

See also
Vancouver Sun
Vancouver Province
List of newspapers in Canada
Passage 15:
2011 Latvian presidential election
Indirect presidential elections were held in Latvia on 2 June 2011. Incumbent president Valdis Zatlers was standing again, as well as Andris Bērziņš (Saeima member for the Union of Greens and Farmers), a former head of SEB Unibanka (not to be confused with Andris Bērziņš, former PM from Latvia's First Party/Latvian Way); Bērziņš was nominated by five Saeima members of the Union of Greens and Farmers just two days before the nomination deadline, although the party was assumed to back Zatlers for re-election.In the first round, Bērziņš got 50 votes in favour and 48 against, while Zatlers got 43 in favour and 55 against (99 lawmakers cast votes, but one was invalid), meaning none was elected; a second round was held later on the same day, with Bērziņš winning the election 53 to 44 votes in favour; Zatlers got 41 to 56 votes.Analysts attributed Zatlers' defeat to his decision to call Latvia's first parliamentary dissolution referendum on 28 May 2011.
Passage 16:
Van Riebeeck Society
Historical Publications Southern Africa (HiPSA)  is a South African text publication society which publishes or republishes primary sources relating to southern African history. It was founded in 1918 as the Van Riebeeck Society for the Publication of Southern African Historical Documents, usually abbreviated as the Van Riebeeck Society (VRS). It changed to its present name in 2017, with the first volume published under the new name appearing in 2019. Since the society's foundation, with rare exceptions, a new volume has been published annually. Fees from subscribing members finance the publications. The society sets out to make historical sources available to the average reader, but it also maintain a high academic standard and has produced valuable Africana.

Origins
Since its inception the society has had close links with the National Library of South Africa (South African Library) in Cape Town. Two men who were instrumental in the Society's founding were A. C. G. Lloyd, librarian of the South African Public Library, and John X. Merriman, at one time prime minister of the Cape Colony and a trustee of the library.
The discovery by Lloyd in November 1911 of a large fragment of Adam Tas's diary of 1704 was to a large extent responsible for the society's creation. As leader of the free burghers opposed to the Dutch East India Company and governor of the Cape, Willem Adriaan van der Stel, Tas personified the struggle against colonialism. The trustees of the library raised the funds needed to publish the diary in 1914.
With surplus money from the publication fund, it was decided to publish Baron van Pallandt's General Remarks on the Cape of Good Hope, an 1803 pamphlet originally written in French, printed clandestinely and suppressed by Uitenhage De Mist, and consequently a rare work. This was published in 1917 and met with the disapproval of General J. B. M. Hertzog, the then prime minister, who was upset by passages describing the poor treatment meted out to the Khoikhoi by the settlers. Hertzog's denunciation of the work led to enormously increased sales.
Bolstered by this success, the trustees decided to publish certain reports on the Cape by Governor Maurits Pasques de Chavonnes, and by the commissioner at the Cape, Baron Gustaaf Willem van Imhoff. However, the library's mandate did not include publishing archival documents so that a decision was taken to found a private society to deal with the management of the project. This led on 29 August 1918 to the first meeting of the society. The initial membership was 54, many being members of parliament, and the de Chavonnes reports made up the first publication.
Passage 17:
Wrong Side of Town
Wrong Side of Town is a 2010 American action film written, produced and directed by David DeFalco, scored by Jim Kaufman, and starring Rob Van Dam and Dave Bautista. The film was released direct-to-DVD in the United States on February 23, 2010.

Plot
Bobby Kalinowski, is a former Navy Seal enjoys a peaceful life as a landscape architect in Louisiana with his family. After receiving an invitation from new neighbors Clay Freeman and Elise Freeman, they go out for a night on the town to a famous club. The evening soon takes a turn for the worse when Bobby gets into a conflict with one of the club owners, named Ethan Bordas. In the middle of the conflict, Ethan accidentally falls and is stabbed by his own knife, while fighting with Bobby, who was defending his wife.
Seeking revenge, Ethan's father Seth Bordas, previously thought to be his older brother, puts a $100,000 bounty on Bobby's head. Also making matters difficult, Bobby is unable to receive help from the law, for Seth has Clay Freeman, and a corrupt police sergeant, working for him. Now Bobby must survive and escape Louisiana while being hunted by criminals, corrupt law, and many others in the city. To protect his family and neighbors, Bobby decides to separate himself from them and goes to his Navy Seal colleague Big Ronnie (or known as B.R.) for help. B.R. initially refuses, deciding to take the bounty, but later changes his mind and helps Bobby. Seth targets Bobby’s family and kidnaps his 16-year-old daughter Brianna. However, Bobby ends up fighting and killing Seth and his henchmen with B.R.'s help, and rescues his daughter.

Cast
Rob Van Dam as Bobby Kalinowski
Dave Bautista as Big Ronnie (B.R.)
Lara Grice as Dawn Kalinowski
Edrick Browne as Clay Freeman
Ava Santana  as Elise Freeman
Stormy Daniels as Stormy
Randal Reeder as Trouble
Jerry Katz as Seth Bordas
Louis Herthum as Briggs
Brooke Frost as Brianna Kalinowski
Ja Rule a.k.a. Jeffrey Atkins as Razor
Nelson Frazier, Jr. as Animal
Damon Lipari as Nicky
Scott Schwartz as Deacon
David DeFalco as Demon
Marrese Crump as Markus
Omarion a.k.a. Omari Grandberry as Stash
Quess a.k.a. Brian Wakefield as Dawg
Ross Britz as Ethan Bordas
"Big Dog" Ramar Jenkins as Big Dog
Carsten H.W. Lorenz as Cab Driver
Anthony M. Frederick as Detective Hernandez
Gabriela Ostos as Abusive Woman
J. Omar Castro as Cop

Production
The film is set and filmed at Baton Rouge, Louisiana and Los Angeles, California on January 18 and February 21, 2009.

Home media
On February 23, 2010, DVD was released by Lionsgate in the United States in Region 1. DVD was released in Region 2 in the United Kingdom on 15 March 2010, it was distributed by Entertainment One.

Critical response
R.L. Shaffer of IGN scored the film  2/10, writing "Alas, Wrong Side of Town gets everything wrong. The producers cast a bunch of wrestlers who can't act and they gave them unbelievable dialogue and stupid characters. It's no wonder their performances are terrible. No one is guided in the right direction, and the entire production feels like a high school-produced cheapie that everyone's ashamed they made".
Passage 18:
Andris Ameriks
Andris Ameriks (born March 5, 1961 in Jūrmala, Latvian SSR) is a Latvian politician and economist who has been serving as a Member of the European Parliament since the 2019 elections. He is a former deputy mayor of Riga.

Political career
Career in national politics
During his youth, he was a former first secretary of the Communist Youth organization of the Latvian SSR. From 1993 to 1998 he was a member of the Saeima, representing the National Harmony Party and later, Democratic Party "Saimnieks". From 2001 he has been a member of the Riga City Council, from 2010 till 2018 serving as the Deputy Chairman of Riga City Council, i.e. the deputy mayor of the Latvian capital.Ameriks is known to be getting a significant part of his income from investments in payday loan companies. In 2017 Ameriks received the largest income among the elected municipal officials in Latvia, reporting an income of 616,386 EUR and 35,250 USD, with most of it being interest payments from Mogo non-bank lender and from the sale of securities.Ameriks resigned as deputy mayor of Riga City Council on December 17, 2018, amid corruption allegations around Rīgas Satiksme. On December 19, 2018 members from the Riga City Council opposition initiated an unsuccessful vote of no confidence against Ameriks as a board chairman for Freeport of Riga.

Member of the European Parliament
Ameriks has been a Member of the European Parliament since the 2019 elections. He has since been serving on the Committee on Transport and Tourism and the Committee on Petitions. 
In addition to his committee assignments, Ameriks is part of the Parliament’s delegation to the EU-Kazakhstan, EU-Kyrgyzstan, EU-Uzbekistan and EU-Tajikistan Parliamentary Cooperation Committees and for relations with Turkmenistan and Mongolia. He is also a member of the European Parliament Intergroup on Western Sahara.